cobissId	title_en	description_en	country	publisher	year	topology	journal	journal_impact_factor	journal_mean_value
10000411	Modified pre-curved patellar basket plate, reconstruction of the proper lengthand position of the patellar ligament	Biomechanical properties of basket plate fixation for fracture dislocation in the distal part of the patella were studied on 22 fresh-frozen lower extremities (human cadaveric knees). The patella and the patellar ligament with the proximal tibia were removed. A comminuted fracture of the distal partof the patella was created with a chisel. The fractured patella, patellar ligament and tibial tuberosity of each specimen were fixed with a basket plateand mounted into the jaws of the testing machine. The measured load to failure was 421.66 45.90 N, which is approximately 70% higher than the results in other studies. The results of the measurements verified the resultsof finite element analysis. The modified precurved patellar basket plate developed in this study showed improved performance compared to the pre-existing fixation methods.	gbr	Butterworth-Heinemann	2007	1.01	The knee	1.307	1.197
1000072	Characterization of the mouse lanosterol 14[alfa]-demetylase (CYP51), a new member of the evolutionarily most conserved cytochrome P450 family	Genes encoding sterol 14[alfa]-demethylases in eukaryotes and in Mycobacterium to the CYP51 family which is evolutionary the most conserved gene family within the cytochrome P450 superfamily. We have characterized a new member of this family, the mouse lanosterol 14]alfa]-demethylase, with the aim to study the in vivo role of this gene in spermatogenesis in mammals. The amino acid sequence of mouse Cyp51 is 96% to human. Comparion of all known CYP51 proteins by the neighbor-joining method suggests that fungal and animal CYP51 genes arose from a common ancestral gene (98.3% probability) and interestingly, that plant and bacterial CYP51 genes share a common progenitor (88.8% probability). This suggests that the first CYP51 gene may have arisen in eukaryotes and has been transferred horizontally from plants to Mycobacterium. The mouse CYP51 gene is ~17-kb long and contains 10 exons. Transcription starts at several locations within the CpG island, which is characteristic for the TATA-less housekeeping genes. The mouse 5´-untranslatedregion (800 bp) contains putative cAMP-responsive elements (CRE), sterol regulatory elements (SRE) and GC-boxes at positions similar to human and rat, sugesting an evolutionary conserved mechanism of CYP51 transcriptional regulation in mammals. The mouse Cyp51 gene resides on chromosome 5, region A2, close to the centromere. No signals, outside this region were detected as well as no evidence of processed pseudogenes using long PCR was found. This indicates that the mouse genome most likely lacksCYP51 processed pseudogenes.	usa	Academic Press.	2000	1.01	Archives of biochemistry and biophysics	2.576	2.504
10001686	Wet-phase-separation membranes from the polysulfone/N,N-dimethylacetamide/water ternary system: the formation and elements of their structure and properties	Asymmetric and porous polysulfone (PSf) membranes were prepared by wet phase separation. Binary (PSf)/N,N-dimethylacetamide (DMA) solutions with polymer concentrations of 12.5-30 wt % were cast in thicknesses of 80-700 m and immersed in a coagulation bath of pure water. The morphology of the formed membranesæ cross sections consisted of a cellular structure and macrovoidsè the cellular structure density was highest when the cast solution contained about 21 wt % PSf, regardless of the cast thickness. The membranesæ pure waterpermeability decreased as the cast thickness increased. The instantaneousonset of the turbidity, regardless of the PSf content and cast thickness, its steep growth, and relatively high end value were the main characteristics of the turbidity phenomena taking place during the formation of the protomembranes. Again, the membrane-forming system with a PSf/DMA solution with about 21 wt % polymer, regardless of the cast thickness, had thehighest turbidity end value. The shrinkage of the cast solutions into the corresponding protomembrane was also examined quantitatively. Inverse experiments showed that the direction of the gravitation field had no influence on the shrinkage of the membrane-forming ternary system or the membranesæ morphology and its water permeability.	usa	Wiley.	2005	1.01	Journal of applied polymer science	1.072	1.376
10003478	Utilization of bottom ash from the incineration of separated wastes as a cement substitute	Waste incineration is still an essential technology in the concept of integrated waste management. Most of the combustion residues are incinerator bottom ash. It has been discovered that incinerator bottom ash from the incineration of separated waste in the primary chamber of the modular two-stage incinerator mainly consists of metal oxides, especially SiO2 and CaO, in proportions that are quite similar to those in cement and so the feasibility of its application as a substitute for cement in concrete was investigated. It was found that after 28 days, the flexural and compressive strengths of the binder using bottom ash were practically comparable with those of a pure cement mixture. The results show that it is reasonable to use a binder containing incinerator bottom ash for applications in which an early-stage lower strength of concrete element is acceptable.	gbr	International Solid Waste Association	2005	1.01	Waste management & research	0.396	1.081
1000545	Automatic derivation of sensivity terms for mixed Galerkin-collocation problems	The paper presents the use of the SMS system (Symbolic Mechanics System) for the automatic derivation and coding of sensitivity terms in finite element analysis. General symbolic derivation of analytical sensitivity terms for general mixed Galerkin-collocation problems is difficult due to the complex (implicit) interactions between different levels of computation. The approach implemented in SMS avoids this problem by combining several techniques: symbolic capabilities of Mathematica, automatic differentation technique, simultaneous optimisation of expressions and stochastic evaluation of the formulae	deu	Wiley-VCH	2000	1.01	Zeitschrift für angewandte Mathematik und Mechanik	0.407	0.713
10005531	Forecasting risks of natural gas consumption in Slovenia	Efficient operation of modern energy distribution systems often requires forecasting future energy demand. This paper proposes a strategy to estimate forecasting risk. The objective of the proposed method is to improve knowledgeabout expected forecasting risk and to estimate the expected cash flow in advance, based on the risk model. The strategy combines an energy demand forecasting model, an economic incentive model and a risk model. Basic guidelines are given for the construction of a forecasting model that combinespast energy consumption data, weather data and weather forecast. The forecasting model is required to estimate expected forecasting errors that arethe basis for forecasting risk estimation. The risk estimation strategy also requires an economic incentive model that describes the influence of forecasting accuracy on the energy distribution systemsæ cash flow. The economic model defines the critical forecasting error levels that most strongly influence cash flow. Based on the forecasting model and the economic model, the development of a risk model is proposed. The risk model is associated with critical forecasting error levels in the context of various influential parameters such as seasonal data, month, day of the week and temperature. The risk model is applicable to estimating the daily forecasting risk based on the influential parameters. The proposed approach is illustrated by a case study of a Slovenian natural gas distribution company.	gbr	IPC Science and Technology Press Ltd	2007	1.01	Energy policy	1.901	1.086
10009622	Enzymatic reactions in dense gases	This article is oriented on application of dense gases as alternative reaction media for enzyme-catalyzed reactions. The main factors influencing enzyme stability (water activity, pressure, temperature, pressurization/depressurization) and the influence of process parameters on the initial reaction rates and productivity are presented.	nld	Elsevier Science	2005	1.01	Biochemical engineering journal	1.781	0.922
10010134	Automated software size estimation based on function points using UML models	A systematic approach to software size estimation is important for accurate project planning. In this paper, we will propose the unified mapping of UML model s into function points. The mapping is formally described to enable the automation of the counting procedure. Three estimation levels are defined that correspond to the different abstraction levels of the software system. The level of abstraction influences an estimate's accuracy. Our research, based on a small data set, proved that accuracy increases with each subsequent abstraction level. Changes to the FPA complexity tables for transactional functions will also be proposed in order to better quantify the characteristics of object-oriented software.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2005	1.01	Information and software technology	0.435	0.937
10012950	Analytical travel time models for multi aisle automated storage and retrieval systems	Multi aisle automated storage and retrieval systems correspond to multiple picking aisles served by a single storage and retrieval machine. These systemsare used in practice when the need for pallet places is high and the throughput capacity is relatively low. Therefore, considerable savings of initial investment costs due to single aisle systems can be achieved using such systems. The objective of the presented study is to develop analytical travel time models for multi aisle automated storage and retrieval systems considering the operating characteristics of the storage and retrieval machine. With the proposed analytical travel time models, average travel time of the storage and retrieval machine, from which the performance of multi aisle automated storage and retrieval systems can be evaluated is determined. A simulation model of multi aisle automated storage and retrieval systems was developed to compare the performances of the proposed analytical travel time models. An example of multi aisle automated storage and retrieval systems withfive picking aisles was presented for the evaluation purpose. The results show that proposed analytical travel time models perform satisfactory according to the results of simulation analysis and could be very useful toolsfor designing of multi aisle automated storage and retrieval systems in real-world applications.	nld	IFS Publications	2005	1.01	International journal, advanced manufacturing technology	0.406	0.565
10017051	Modelling of the twin-entry turbocharger turbine	An original physical model to calculate the fluid dynamics and energy conversion in twin-entry turbocharger turbines for internal combustion enginesis presented. The model is to be used as the boundary condition for one-dimensional wave action techniques and is also capable of considering variable gas properties and composition. The model is based on a simple variable-area approach; however, it is capable of adequately modelling complex flows that occur in multi-cylinder turbocharged engines. This is confirmed through the good agreement between calculated and measured turbine and engine parameters.	gbr	The Institution of Mechanical Engineers	2007	1.01	Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers	0.280	0.73
1002120	Lactobacillus K7 - a new candidate for a probiotic strain	Lactobacillus K7 is an isolate from faeces of a 1 week old breast-fed baby that has been previously found to exhibit bacteriocin-like activity against various species of lactic acid bacteria and Clostridium sp. In this study partial identification of the strain K7 was done and some basic properties that are desirable for probiotic bacteria were studied: resistance to low pH, to bile salts and bacteriocin production. The effect of bacteriocins of the strain K7 against C. perfringens and C. difficile vegetative cells and againstC. tyrobutyricum vegetative cells and spores was also examined. On the basis of morphological characteristics, API 50 CHL (BioMerieux) fermentation pattern and analysis of S-layer, the strain K7 was identified as a member of L. acidophilus DNA homology group B (Johnson et al., 1980). The strain K7 was able to grow in the presence of 0.3 % of bile salts. The cfu/ml during 2 hours incubation at pH 2 was reduced for 2 log units, whilst at pH 3 almost no reduction was observed. Bacteriocins were produced during the logaritmic phase of growth. In flask MRS broth culture and in fermentor with regulated pH (pH=6), the bacteriocin concentration reached 32.000 BA/ml and 160.000 BA/ml, respectively. Minimal inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of bacteriocins of Lactobacillus K7 for C. tyrobutyricum vegetative cells were 640-2.560 BA/ml, depending on the strain tested. The sensitivity of the spores was higher than of vegetative cells and MIC varied between bacterial strains as well (1.280Þ5.120 BA/ml).	hrv	Faculty of Food Technology and Biotechnology	2000	1.01	Food technology and biotechnology	0.291	0.734
1002376	Lactoprotein genetic variants in cattle and cheese making ability	Cheese making ability of milk is associated with high contents of protein, casein, (CN) and fat, high casein number, short rennet coagulation time (RCT),high curd firmness (CF) and with a high cheese yield. For the four CN loci, as well as for the beta- lactoglobulin (LG) - and alfa-lactalbumin (LA) locus, more than 60 genetic variants have been observed. However, most of these variants have not yet been investigated with regard to their cheese making ability. In Holstein Frisian cows k-CN BB is associated with a higher protein and casein content of milk than k-CN AA. However, in Simmentals and in Brown Cattle this association is not so clear; a higher fat content of milk seems to be related to beta-LG BB when compared with beta-LG AA. In many publications beta-LG BB also showed a higher casein content than beta-LG AA. All publications referring to the casein number report that milk containing beta-LG BB has an approximately 3 % (absolute) higher casein number than milk containing beta-LG AA. Regarding the genotypes alfa s1-CN BC and CC contradictory results for the RCT and CF values have been published when compared with alfas1-CN BB milk. Beta-CN BB showed in all publications the shortest RCT among all beta-CN genotypes, whereas the reported results for CF of this genotype compared with the types A[up]1A[up]1 or A[up]2A[up]2 are conflicting. From the majority of the published data it may be concluded that milk containig k-CN BB has significantly shorter RCT and higher CF than k-CN AA milk. All rare genotypes at the k-CN locus, such as AC, BC, AE, BE and EE, had worse RCT values than k-CN BB milk. CF of k-cn genotypes increases in the order AE/AA<AB/AB/AC<BC/BB. In most investigations involving Parmiggiano-Reggiano, Cheddar and other cheese varieties higer yields of cheese were found, ranging from 0.3 to 10 %, in favour of k-CN BB compared with k-CN AA. Due to the higher casein number associated with beta-LG BB, higher yields of cheese were reported in literature (range 1 to 10 %) for thisgenotype than for beta-LG AA. In summary, k-CN B and beta-LG B are the most advantageous variants with respect to cheese making ability. However, in most publications attentions was focused on the effects of a single milk protein locus but due to the tight linkage between the casein loci effects of haplotypes should be studied more extensively.	hrv	Faculty of Food Technology and Biotechnology	2000	1.02	Food technology and biotechnology	0.291	0.734
10024726	Characterisation of grass fibres	The elementary grass fibres were isolated from different grass and legumes sorts, i.e. Ryegrass (Lolium hybridum Gumpenstein), Wheat straw, Trefoil (Trifolium pratense) and Lucerne (Medicago sativa). The fibre-samples were obtained in a bio-refinery, after the liquid phase containing proteins and lactic acid was eliminated from the ensiled and green grasses, respectively. For the isolation of elementary grass fibres different processes were used. The morphological characteristics of stems and leaves of different grass species were microscopically observed. On the microscopical stem and leaves cross-section samples the quantification of fibres sclerenchyma cells was performed. The quantitative analysis was carried out in order to obtain basic quantitative data on grass fibres, such as area of the single fibre or group of fibres, diameter of a single fibre or group of fibres and distances betweenthe most distant and least distant points on the area of the fibre. Measurements were made using a Carl Zeiss software KS 300, which runs on a computer connected to the image analysis equipment consisting of a microscope and a digital camera. In addition to, geometrical and mechanical properties ofisolated fibres and fibre bundles were determined. Due to the grass history,i.e. deformations and damages caused by the treatment of grasses in the bio-refinery, maturity grade, grass or legumes type and conditions during grass growth, the plant structures vary considerable in their properties.	nld	Chapman and Hall	2005	1.01	Journal of Materials Science	0.901	1.429
10025494	Electrokinetic properties of commercial vascular grafts	The surface morphology and chemical composition (the presence or absence of surface functional groups) of commercial vascular graftsæ surfaces are significant for their interaction abilities with components of polar liquids. This can also be assumed as correct for grafts-blood interactions. In this paper we studied the adsorption characteristics of different graftsæ surfaces using an electrokinetic measurement technique. A comparative study was performed on woven, knitted polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) vascular grafts. Streaming potential measurements were used for the determination of zeta potential (Ž), which was studied as a function of electrolyte solutionsæ pH and surfactant concentration (using standard cationic surfactants i.e. N-CP-Cl, N-DP-Cl) in order to obtain information about critical charge reversal concentration (CRC). The analysed surface morphology and some physical properties were correlated with the electrokinetic properties of different grafts, and studiedregarding their adsorption characteristics. The SEM images of graft surfaces show that woven PET has more densely packed and more-ordered structure than knitted PET. The PTFE surface exhibits a typical micro-porous structure for a tubular membrane. The strong dependence of zeta potential can be observed from the exposure time to the electrolyte solution. The Ž-pH functions (pH of electrolyte solution) show significant differences between different grafts. Small differences in molecular masses between both surfactants applied cause clear differences in the adsorption behaviours of the arterial grafts.	nld	Elsevier	2006	1.01	Colloids and surfaces	1.611	2.525
10025499	Robust design of flank milling parameters based on grey-Taguchi method	The robust design of flank milling parameters is dealing with the optimization of the cutting loads, milled surface roughness and the material removal rate (MRR) in the machining of an Al-alloy casting plate for injection moulds. The considered flank milling parameters include the coolant employment, number of end mill flutes, cutting speed, feed per tooth, axial depth of cut, and radial depth of cut. Grey-Taguchi method is combining the orthogonal array (OA) design of experiments (DOE) with grey-relational analysis (GRA), which enables the determination of the optimal combination of flank milling parameters for multiple process responses. The basic idea of GRAis to find a grey-relational grade (GRG), which can be used for the optimization conversion from a multi-objective case to a single-objective case. GRG is also used to estimate the parameter effects on the overall performance response.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Journal of materials processing technology	0.816	0.656
1002632	Gene technology and milk production	The introduction of gene technology to the practice of animal breeding has opened new venues as we enter the 21st century. Using DNA based genotyping thenew genetic variants of milk protein genes were identified and basic regulatory mechanisms of the lactoprotein gene expression were discovered. Genomic and cDNA sequences for all major lactoprotein genes were deposited in the GenBank and comprehensive analysis of these data revealed the molecular baasis of some quantitative effects which have been reported to be associated with particular genetic variants. In addition, comprehensive analysis of the animal genome enabled chromosomal localization of candidate regions bearing quantitative trait loci with effects on milk traits. The possibility to assessmaternal and paternal in heritance of desired lactoprotein alleles can be utilised for efficient selection of desiredhaplotypes. Beside the possibility to change the milk composition through selection of favourable lactoprotein alleles, there is also the chance to manipulate milk composition via metabolic pathways, which regulate fat and carbohydrate synthesis. Reduction of the amount of saturated fatty acids and lactose in bovine milk are two interesting tasks for the future in order to adapt bovine milk to the requirements of modern human nutrition and to make bovine milk acceptable for special groups of consumers. Finally, the availabiblity of recombinant growth hormone induced new technologies of milk production based on prolonged lactation with high persistance of milk yield.	hrv	Faculty of Food Technology and Biotechnology	2000	1.02	Food technology and biotechnology	0.291	0.734
10027798	Phase equilibira of permethrin and dicofol with carbon dioxide	The solubilities of pesticides (permethrin and dicofol) in CO2 were measured by a static-analytic method at pressures ranging from 10.0 MPa to 25.0 MPa andtemperatures of 293.2 K, 303.2 K, and 313.2 K. Due to the nonconventional shape of some solubility isotherms, solid-liquid transitions of pesticides under pressure of CO2 were determined using a modified capillary method. Sincethe solubilities depend on solvent density, the experimental binary solid-fluid equilibrium data were correlated as a function of solvent density by two different models.	nld	American Chemical Society	2005	1.01	Journal of chemical and engineering data	1.610	0.922
10040347	Thickness optimization of circular annular plate at buckling	This work deals with thickness optimization of a circular annular plate at buckling. The plate is loaded with uniform, axially symmetric, in-plane loads on the inner and outer edge. The variable thickness of the plate is approximated by a function of radial coordinates and design variables. An optimization problem is defined to find optimal sets of design variables which/maximize buckling loads at constant weight/volume of the plate. The required buckling loads are determined according to the standard linear buckling equations, and the material is modelled by the small strain J2 flow and deformation theories of plasticity where an elastic linear hardening rheological model is considered. Optimal thickness functions are determined for different support and load cases and the numerical results show that buckling loads can be increased significantly.	gbr	Elsevier	2006	1.01	Thin-walled structures	0.694	0.599
10041627	Chaordic systems thinking for novelty in contemporary manufacturing	The paper describes a framework for novelty creation, based in complexity, andhow it enables the management for novelty in manufacturing systems. The paperæs central thesis is that complexity should not be eliminated but nurtured. The human role is focused on. The paper evaluates how the creation of novelty is recognized in existing MS approaches such as Collaborative Design, Complexity, Emergent Synthesis, and Networked Organizations. A complexity framework is proposed to develop a chaordic manufacturing system.	che	Technische Rundschau;Hallwag Verlag;Colibri	2007	1.01	CIRP annals	0.779	0.656
10049819	Oxy-hydrogen flame for cutting of steels	The paper deals with oxy-hydrogen cutting of steel plates. The first part deals with calculation of the combustion efficiency of an oxy-hydrogen flame. A device for supply of a hydrogen-oxygen mixture is described. The main part of the paper is focused on oxy-hydrogen cutting and its advantages. The main conclusions show that the cut surface is flat and very smooth, the heat-affected zone is very narrow, and the cutting speed is relatively high.	hrv	Metalurški fakultet;Hrvatsko metalurško društvo	2007	1.01	Metalurgija	0.196	0.661
10050075	Analysis of lack of fusion in welds at water heaters	The paper treats a weld discontinuity called lack of fusion, which is frequently a cause of leakage of a water heater. The heater was produced by MAG welding using two wires (twin arc welding). The paper states some reasons for the occurrence of lack of fusion, i.e. the arc blow effect, an inappropriate gun position, uncontrolled movement of the weld pool, too low energy input, an improper joint preparation. The defect is illustrated in a macrograph of a weld produced at the water heater with twin wires in a shielding gas. Welding with twin wires is schematically represented with a circumferential welded joint between the end and shell of the water heater.	hrv	Metalurški fakultet;Hrvatsko metalurško društvo	2007	1.01	Metalurgija	0.196	0.661
10051606	Comparison of the esterification of fructose and palmitic acid in organic solvent and supercritical carbon dioxide	Sugar fatty acid esters are nonionic surfactants, which are used for personal care products, cosmetic applications, and as emulsifiers for food. In recent years, enzymatic synthesis of sugar fatty acid esters is attracting keen attention as a new manufacturing method for future application. Reaction parameters of lipase-catalyzed synthesis of fructose fatty acid esters in organic solvent were optimized in a batch reactor at atmospheric pressure. Optimum conditions for reaction performed in organic solvent at atmospheric pressure were 10% (wžw of substrates) of lipase from Candida antarctica B, 12.14% (wžw of reaction mixture) of molecular sieves at 60 C, and stirring rate of 600 rpm. Esterification of fructose and palmitic acid was performed insupercritical carbon dioxide with and without addition of cosolvent (organicsolvent) at 60 C. Effect of pressure on enzyme activity was studied.	usa	American Chemical Society	2005	1.01	Industrial & engineering chemistry research	1.504	0.922
10051862	Enzymatic reactions in high-pressure membrane reactors	In the studies on the stability of biocatalysts in a high-pressure batch stirred tank reactor, changes in biocatalyst activity due to pressurizationždepressurization steps were observed. An interesting alternative to overcome this inconvenience is using the high-pressure continuous membrane reactors, where just a single compression and expansion step is necessary. The aim of the research was to carry out the enzyme-catalyzed reactions in high-pressure membrane reactors. At first, high-pressure enzyme-catalyzed hydrolyses of oleyl oleate and sunflower oil were performed in a high-pressure continuous enzymatic flat-shape membrane reactor. Additionally, cellulase from Humicola insolens was covalently immobilized on tubular membrane, and enzyme-catalyzed hydrolysis of carboxy-methyl cellulose was carried out in a high-pressure continuous enzymatic tubular membrane reactor. The membrane-stability tests for flat-shape polysulfon membranes before and after treatment with supercritical CO2 or subcritical propane were done, as well.	usa	American Chemical Society	2005	1.01	Industrial & engineering chemistry research	1.504	0.922
10055708	The influence of a family on ethical behaviour of a family enterprise	Family enterprises are defined as a special type of enterprises. The involvement of a family in the enterprise is what makes these enterprises unique. The research presented in the paper aims to broaden our knowledge about the influence of a family on the ethical behaviour of a family enterprise. The case study research methodology was applied to explore the influence of a family on the constitutional elements of the enterprise ethical behaviour. The pre-designed questionnaire was used in conducting face-to-face interviews with 28 managers who were in most cases also owners of the studied enterprises.	hun	Bp. Tech Polytech. Inst.	2009	1.01	Acta polytechnica Hungarica	0.284	0.826
10062102	Ultraprimeness of the Lorentz algebra	We solve the problem of finding the best possible constant of ultraprimeness for the special class of Euclidean algebra called Lorentz algebra. More precisely, we prove that for Lorentz algebra, equipped with spectral norm, thebest possible constant of ultraprimeness is 1/2 regardless of dimension.	deu	Springer	2005	1.01	Manuscripta mathematica	0.384	0.559
10062363	Experimental determination of transient wall temperature distributions close to growing vapor bubbles	Experiments were performed to study the spatio-temporal temperature variation underneath growing bubbles on a thin platinum heating foil in saturated and subcooled nucleate pool boiling of water at atmospheric pressure. The transient wall temperature distributions were recorded with spatial resolutionof 40 m by a high-speed infrared camera at intervals of 1 ms, synchronised with a high-speed video camera to record bubble motion. Examples are presented of the transient distributions of wall temperature, heat flux and heat transfer coefficient underneath bubbles growing with the fast and slow bubble detachment mechanisms in saturated and subcooled pool boiling. Comments are made on the evidence for and against particular mechanisms of heat transfer.	gbr	Springer	2009	1.01	Heat and mass transfer	0.786	1.335
10071324	Demand models for direct mail and periodicals delivery services	This article examines the demand for services of the Slovenian national postal operator for the direct mail and periodicals market and separately for the direct mail market. The main factors of the demand are found to be various price indicators with respect to individual market, two income series and the variable of economic environment. The results of our empirical analysis suggest that the price elasticity of demand on both markets is below zero. The autonomy in price increases is limited due to positive cross-price elasticity of demand for direct mail with regard to price fluctuations for TV commercials. Substitution effects on the direct mail market are even more evident with regard to price fluctuations for advertisements in magazines and daily papers. An additional finding is that the demand on both markets varies seasonally in all models estimated by us. Finally, coefficients of income elasticity of demand for direct mail services show that the total number of mail deliveries on the direct mail market increases faster than the retail revenue in real terms.	gbr	Chapman and Hall	2011	1.01	Applied economics	0.459	1.032
10077468	Ethical preferences for influencing superiors	With a 41-society sample of 9990 managers and professionals, we used hierarchical linear modeling to investigate the impact of both macro-level andmicro-level predictors on subordinate influence ethics. While we found that both macro-level and micro-level predictors contributed to the model definition, we also found global agreement for a subordinate influence ethics hierarchy. Thus our findings provide evidence that developing a global model of subordinate ethics is possible, and should be based upon multiple criteria and multilevel variables.	gbr	Academy of International Business and Rutgers Graduate School of Business Administration at Newark, N.J.	2009	1.01	Journal of international business studies	3.766	1.673
100781	Effect of land use and fish stocking on a mauntain lake-evidence from the sediment	Forging, associated with clear-cutting influenced the lake since the very beginning but the most destructive influence had introduction of fish in 1951. A change in zooplankton community started at that time and was enhanced after hotel reconstruction in mid 80s. The result is highly eutropic lake eith permanent depletion of oxigen below 5m and low Secchi-disc depth. Prevalence of small-bodied zooplankton Crustacea, with Eubosmina as the most abaundant species, is characteristic for the present situation. Diatom species, Stephanodiscus parvus, an indicator of eutrophication, is very common, too.	hrv	Hrvatsko prirodoslovno društvo	2000	1.01	Periodicum biologorum	0.213	1.778
10080283	A beam-deflection probe as a method for optodynamic measurements of cavitation bubble oscillations	High-intensity light from a laser pulse can produce laser-induced breakdown in a liquid followed by a shock wave and the growth of a cavitation bubble. When the bubble reaches its maximum radius, the pressure of the surrounding liquid causes it to collapseè this results in bubble oscillations. The cavitation bubble's oscillations and the corresponding shock waves were measured from the deflections of a laser beam. These deflections were detected using a fast quadrant photodiode, built into the optical probe. The precise relative-positioning system and the small diameter of the beamæs waistmade it possible to detect and analyse the signals from the shock wave and the cavitation bubble. Here, we have demonstrated that a method based on abeam-deflection probe can be used to measure the fast phenomena that follow immediately after laser-induced breakdown as well as the whole dynamics of the bubble oscillations, which corresponds to a three-orders-of-magnitude larger time scale.	gbr	IOP Publishing	2007	1.01	Measurement science & technology	1.297	0.771
10081051	Ugotavljanje in vrednotenje potreb kupcev v postopku razvoja izdelka	Today's companies are facing new challenges: global business and local operation, the standardization and individualization of products, and demanding customers and fierce competition. This paper presents the phases ofquality functions deployment (QFD) during a new-product development process along with the method for obtaining, structuring and evaluating customer needs. A full description of the information resources for obtaining the data on customer needs is given, and the methods for obtaining, structuring and evaluating the data on customer needs are presented. The QFD process of new-product development is described. We present the results of testing the proposed methodology, taking into account the voice of the customer, in the process of developing a new Vario Flow product in a company that produces and sells medical equipment on domestic and foreign markets.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2007	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.088	0.706
10081307	Izboljšanje termodinamiènih lastnosti hladilnih stolpov na naravni vlek	The velocity and temperature fields above droplet eliminators inside a natural-draft cooling tower of the Doel-3 powerplant (Belgium) were determined using the CTP (Cooling Tower Profiler) method. The measurements show regions of high velocities and low temperatures of air at the cooling tower circumference, leading to locally impaired heat and mass transfer. The established phenomenological relations enable the solution of this problem, which can be achieved by a variation of the fill height and the water mass-flow rate. The influence of these two parameters was analysed numerically. A 3D numerical simulation of a single-phase turbulent airflow wasperformed. Local values of the air velocity and air temperature were included in the numerical model through source terms. The numerical results present the analysis of local irregularities and their influence on the overall cooling-tower characteristics. Experimental and numerical results for the velocity and temperature fields in a cooling toweræs transverse section are presented, followed by a procedure for reducing irregularities in the cooling toweræs operation. This procedure includes the increase of the fill height and the rearrangement of the local cooling-water mass-flow rate in the cooling toweræs transverse section. In the numerical model these two parameters were modelled by a local modification of the source terms. Modifiedsource terms of the model lead to more uniform aero-thermodynamic properties in the tower and consequently to a higher cooling-tower efficiency. The paper presents a complete diagnostic method of local anomalies, based on the case of a representative Doel-3 cooling tower. The method is based on experimental and numerical modelling of the transport phenomena inside the cooling tower. It makes it possible to increase the efficiency of the cooling toweræs operation. The calculated mean heat-flux density was increased by 2.8% in this particular case.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2007	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.088	0.706
10081819	Comments on the cold metal forming processes stability control	Nowadays different components must be produced in very narrow tolerances, the number of non-satisfying ones is limited to some tens parts per million, the final goal is oriented towards zero-defect production. To fulfil these preconditions the forming processes must be well understood. The paper discusses a possibility to improve and stabilize the quality of products by permanent process stability control and by positioning these processes in stable parts of technological windows. To find optimal solutions a combinationof carefully selected experiments, analysis of successful production cases and tests in the virtual environments is highly recommended. To the discussion on process stability control some examples from sheet metal and bulk metal forming will be presented.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Journal of materials processing technology	0.816	0.656
10084123	Load-dependent transition in sliding wear properties of TiCN-WC-Ni cermets	The present investigation aims at evaluating the sliding wear behavior of TiCN-20 wt%Ni cermets, containing varying amounts of WC (5-25 wt%) against 100Cr6 steel at different loads (5, 20, and 50 N). The dominant wear mechanisms were established by using surface topography analysis (Stylus profilometry), scanning electron microscopy, and X-ray diffraction. The steady-state coefficient of friction varies over a wide rangeÈ 0.73-0.27 at different loads for the investigated cermets. The volumetric wear loss of the cermets in general increases with load, while the wear rate varies in the order of 10-7 mm3 (N m)-1. The worn surface characterization reveals that a transition in wear mechanism occurs from abrasion and mild tribo-oxidation at low loads to the formation of a dense tribo-oxide layer, containing oxides of Fe and Ti (essentially Fe9TiO15) at high loads. Efforts have been made to discuss the possible reaction pathways to explain the formation of the tribochemical layer. The addition of WC to TiCN-Ni-based cermets results in increased abrasion at low loads and severe fracture of the tribo-oxide layer at high loads.	usa	American Ceramic Society	2007	1.01	Journal of the American Ceramic Society	1.792	0.62
10086678	An approach to calculate thermodynamic properties of mixtures including Propane, n-Butane, and Isobutane	This paper discusses a mathematical model for computing the thermodynamic properties of propane, n-butane, isobutane, and their mixtures, in the fluid phase using a method based upon statistical chain theory. The constants necessary for computations such as the characteristic temperatures of rotation, electronic state, etc. and the moments of inertia are obtained analytically applying a knowledge of the atomic structure of the molecule. The paper presents a procedure for calculating thermodynamic properties such aspressure, speed of sound, the Joule-Thomson coefficient, compressibility, enthalpy, and thermal expansion coefficient. This paper will discuss, for the first time, the application of statistical chain theory for accurate properties of binary and ternary mixtures including propane, n-butane, and isobutane, in their entire fluid phases. To calculate the thermodynamic properties of Lennard-Jones chains, the Liu-Li-Lu model has been used. The thermodynamic properties of the hydrocarbon mixtures are obtained using the one-fluid theory.	usa	Plenum Press	2005	1.01	International journal of thermophysics	0.940	0.816
10086745	C [ast] -convex sets and completely bounded bimodule homomorphisms	If ?$A$? and ?$B$? are ?$C^\ast$?-algebras and ?$X$? is an operator ?$A,B$?-bimodule, then points of ?$X$? can be separated from closed ?$A,B$?-absolutely convex subsets of ?$X$? by completely bounded ?$A,B$?-bimodule homomorphisms from ?$X$? into ?$B({\cal K})$?, where ?${\cal K}$? is a Hilbert space and the ?$A,B$?-bimodule strucrure on ?$B({\cal K})$? is introduced by a pair of representations ?$\pi: A \to B({\cal K})$? and ?$\sigma: B \to B({\cal K})$?. If ?$A$? and ?$B$? are von Neumann algebras and ?$X$? is a normal (not necessarily dual) operator ?$A,B$?-bimodule, those ?$A,B$?-absolutely convex subsets of ?$X$? are characterized which can be separated from points of ?$X$? as above, but with the additional requirement that two representations ?$\pi$? and ?$\sigma$? are normal. This requires a new topology on ?$X$?, which has appeared also in connection with some other questions concerning operator modules.	gbr	The Royal Society	2000	1.01	Proceedings	0.483	0.495
10086939	Coupled elastoplasticity and viscoplasticity under thermomechanical loading	This paper is a contribution to material behaviour modelling. Total strain is decomposed into elastoplastic and viscoplastic strains. Both parts are analysed separately and put together by the principle of superposition. The spring-slider model controlled by either stress or strain enables elastoplasticity modelling under constant or variable temperature with the Prandtl operators. Viscoplasticity is taken into account, if temperature exceeds creep temperature, by adding a nonlinear damper to existing spring-slider models, otherwise just elastoplasticity is considered. The material parameters result from isothermal strain-controlled low cycle fatigue(LCF) tests. Hysteresis loops are assumed to be stabilized. The high speed of computation that is characteristic of Masing and memory rules is retained. Solving of differential equations is not required. The model developed so far is uniaxial, but a multiaxial extension is possible.	gbr	Blackwell Publishing	2007	1.01	Fatigue & fracture of engineering materials & structures	0.726	0.706
10087195	Strain-life approach in thermo-mechanical fatigue evaluation of complex structures	This paper is a contribution to strain-life approach evaluation of thermo-mechanically loaded structures. It takes into consideration the uncoupling of stress and damage evaluation and has the option of importing non-linear or linear stress results from finite element analysis (FEA). The multiaxiality is considered with the signed von Mises method. In the developedDamage Calculation Program (DCP) local temperature-stress-strain behaviour is modelled with an operator of the Prandtl type and damage is estimated by use of the strain-life approach and Skeltonæs energy criterion. Material data were obtained from standard isothermal strain-controlled low cycle fatigue (LCF) tests, with linear parameter interpolation or piecewise cubic Hermite interpolation being used to estimate values at unmeasured temperature points. The model is shown with examples of constant temperature loading and random force-temperature history. Additional research was done regarding the temperature dependency of the Kp used in the Neuber approximate formula for stress-strain estimation from linear FEA results. The proposed model enables computationally fast thermo-mechanical fatigue (TMF) damage estimations for random load and temperature histories.	gbr	Blackwell Publishing	2007	1.01	Fatigue & fracture of engineering materials & structures	0.726	0.706
10087446	Opportunities to enchance multimode fiber links by application of overfilled launch	This paper investigates possibilities for the practical design of high-performance multimode fibers (MMFs) that can provide bandwidths in excess of 10 GHz km in an overfilled regime of operation. Analysis of standard MMF in an overfilled launch demonstrates that the theoretical bandwidth limitations arise from the influence of cladding on the propagation of the highest order modes. Practical MMF profile designs that overcome this problem are investigated. The standard 50- and 62.5-JLm fiber profiles are redesigned first to allow for the performance in an overfilled launch with the differential mode delays (DMDs) below 0.055 and 0.250 ns/km, respectively. It is shown that such fibers can exhibit the same or better theoretical bandwidth in an overfilled launch when compared to standard fiber under restricted launch. Elimination of the need for the restricted mode launch in high-performance multimode transmission systems can improve reliability issues and can relax the range of tolerance requirements imposed on terminal equipment, optical components, and link installation. Furthermore, MMFs that can be operated in an overfilled launched are compatible with emerging vertical cavity surface emitting laser (VeSEL) wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) array technologies. A successfully controlled higher order mode DMD also allows for the reduction of MMF core size and .d that can be beneficial for low-cost high-performance single-channel links. It is demonstrated that properly designed reduced core fibers can achieve theoretical DMDs in the range of 0.005-{).02 nsIkm. The bend loss properties of redesigned fibers are investigated in detail, showing that the proposed modifications do not lead to significant degradation of bend loss performance. Moreover, they can be manufactured at considerably lower cost while utilizing commercially readily available low-cost VCSELs. Even where the theoretical limit is not achieved by practical fiber making, the reduced core size and .d MMF can provide higher production yield, lower cost, and higher average bandwidth.	gbr	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2005	1.01	Journal of lightwave technology	2.077	0.954
10087958	Data-driven generation of phonetic broad classes, based on phoneme confusion matrix similarity	This paper addresses the topic of defining phonetic broad classes needed during acoustic modeling for speech recognition in the procedure of decision tree based clustering. The usual approach is to use phonetic broad classes which are defined by an expert. This method has some disadvantages, especially in the case of multilingual speech recognition. A new data-driven method is proposed for the generation of phonetic broad classes based on a phoneme confusion matrix. The similarity measure is defined using the number of confusions between the master phoneme and all other phonemes included in the set. This proposed method is compared to the standard approach based on expert knowledge and to the randomly gen era ted broad classes approach. The proposed data-driven method is implicitly evaluated within a speech recognition experiment. The intention of the first evaluation stage is to test the generated acoustic modeIs in a monolingual environment (Slovenian), to show that the proposed method does not contain a multilingual influence. In the second evaluation stage, the generated acoustic model s are tested in a multilingual environment (Slovenian, German and Spanish). All experiments were based on SpeechDat(lI) speech databases. The proposed data-driven method for the generation of phonetic broad classes, based on phoneme confusion matrix, improved speech recognition results when compared to the method based on expert knowledge.	nld	North-Holland	2005	1.01	Speech communication	1.178	0.935
1008975	Apospory in leaf culture of staghorn fern (Platycerium bifurcatum)	The introduction, origin, morphology, and ploidy of aposporous gametophytes produced on juvenile leaves of the fern Platycerium bifurcatum (Cav.) C. Chr. were studied. Leaf explants were grown on modified Murashige and Skoog medium with 0%, 0.01%, 0.1%, 1%, or 2% sucrose. A low surcose concentration (0.01%) and wounding of the adaxial side of the leaf significantly increased the induction of aposporous gametophytes (90% of leaves produced gametophytes). Regeneration began as a proliferation of mainly epiderment cells on both sides of the leaf; subsequent development was similar to that shown by gametophytes originating from spores. Flow cytometric analysis of sporophytes and aposporous gametophytes revealed that both forms had the same ploidy level. On the basis of these findings, we propose a set of conditions which regularly and reproducibly induces apospory on most of the leaf explants of the fern P. bifurcatum	deu	Springer	2002	1.01	Plant cell reports	1.340	1.444
1009001	European Union of Medical Specialists (UEMS) section of Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine	Physical and rehabilitation medicine (PRM) specialists have an important role in the clinical care of patients during the acute phase of a disabling health condition. This phase is defined as once definitive care or resuscitation has taken place and a patient's need to stay in hospital as an inpatient is primarily for PRM services for rehabilitation. This paper describes 4 options for the delivery of services for people, who continue to require to be inpatients and who will benefit from PRM interventions. These are described, along with their clear benefits during the acute phase of a health condition. The first 2 models are the most effective in making best use of the acute facilities and PRM services. The benefits of dedicated PRM beds appear to outweigh those of the other options and may be cheaper, although no cost-effectiveness studies comparing the first 2 options have yet been undertaken. Prospective trials are required to show this benefit, and a number of examples need to be set up to pilot this in order to provide realistic cost-effectiveness data.	swe	Taylor & Francis	2010	1.02	Journal of rehabilitation medicine	1.967	1.381
10092059	An improved neural computing method for describing the scatter of S-N curves	The reliability evaluation of structural components under random loading is affected by several uncertainties. Proper statistical tools should be used to manage the large amount of causalities and the lack of knowledge on the actualreliability-affecting parameters. For fatigue reliability prediction of a structural component, the probability distribution of material fatigue resistance should be determined, given that the scatter of loading spectra is known and a suitable damage cumulating model is chosen. In the randomness of fatigue resistance of a material, constant amplitude fatigue test results showthat at any stress level the fatigue life is a random variable. In this instance fatigue life is affected by a variety of influential factors, such asstress amplitude, mean stress, notch factor, temperature, etc. Therefore a hybrid neural computing method was proposed for describing the fatigue data trends and the statistical scatter of fatigue life under constant loading conditions for an arbitrary set of influential factors. To support the main idea, two examples are presented. It can be concluded that the improved neuralcomputing method is suitable for describing the fatigue data trends and the scatter of fatigue life under constant loading conditions for an arbitraryset of influential factors, once the optimal neural network is designed and trained.	gbr	Butterworth Scientific Limited	2007	1.01	International journal of fatigue	1.117	0.706
10092315	On the review by Nadarajah and Kotz	The paper presents an overview through the development in the field of load spectra modelling published so far by the author et al. and replays to the criticism given by Nadarajah and Kotz [Nadarajah S, Kotz S. On the recent papers by Nagode et al. Int J Fatigue 2007, doi:10.1016/j.ijfatigue.2006.12.017]	gbr	Butterworth Scientific Limited	2007	1.03	International journal of fatigue	1.117	0.706
1009274	Selective recording of electroneurograms from sciatic nerve of a dog with multi-electrode spiral cuffs	Electroneurograms (ENGs) from superficial regions of the sciatic nerve of a Beagle dog were recorded selectively with a chronically implanted 33-electrodespiral cuff (cuff). By delivering stimulating pulses to groups of three electrodes (GTEa) within the cuff we could define the relative positionsof the particular superficial regions that selectively innervated thetibials anterior (TA) and gastrocnemius muscles (GM). GTEs with and withoutcontractions of the TA and GM muscles were selected and connected to a 4-channel ENG system designed to amplify ENGs by 100,000 times and to pass frequencies between 500 Hz and 10 kHz. In our study, 12 experiments were conducted on three Beagle dogs with a cuff implanted for up to 2 years. We present the results obtained in four experiments conducted on one animal. Withthe implanted leg mounted in a special electronic brace we applied extending forces to the ankle, rotating it by up to 37 degrees according to the neutral position, eliciting torque to stretch the TA muscle. Only the ENG from a GTE eliciting maximum contraction of the TA muscle showed activities corresponding to the trajectory of the mechanical load of the muscle. Next, wedissected the calcanean tendon (CT) of the implanted leg and applied repetitive pull forces to the CT. Only the ENG from the GTE eliciting maximum contraction of the GM muscle was activated in correspondence to the trajectoryof the mechanical load applied on the CT. The results suggest that the cuff, implanted chronically on the sciatic nerve, is useful to record ENGsof the afferent fibres from TA and GM muscles selectively and that the technique could be extended for human use in the field of rehabilitation for paralysis.	jpn	Dr Yas Kuno	2000	1.01	Japanese Journal of Physiology	1.351	2.347
10095638	Decentralized PI/PD position control for active magnetic bearings	This paper discusses a closed-loop decentralized control for active magnetic bearings. A cascade connection of PI and PD position controllers is proposed. The control design is based on a simplified linearized model for one axis using a root locus. An excellent agreement is noticeable between simulation and experimental results. It has been shown, that the presented PI/PD control guarantees satisfactory high damping and stiffness of the overall system.	deu	Springer	2006	1.01	Electrical engineering	0.068	0.942
1009619	Intrinsic ionic conductances mediate the spontaneous electrical activity of cultured mouse myotubes	Mouse skeletal myotubes differentiated in vitro exhibited spontaneous contractions associated with electrical activity. The ionic conductances responsible for the origin and modulation of the spontaneous activity were examined using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique and measuring [Ca2+]i transients with the Ca2+ indicator, fura 2-AM. Regular spontaneous activity was characterized by single TTX-sensitive action potentials, followed by transient increases in [Ca2+]i. Since the bath-application of Cd2+ (300 M) orNi2+ (50 M) abolished the cell firing, T-type (ICa,T) and L-type (ICa,L) Ca2+ currents were investigated in spontaneously contracting myotubes. The low activation threshold (around -60 mV) and the high density of ICa,T observed in contracting myotubes suggested that ICa,T initiated action potential firing, by bringing cells to the firing threshold. The results also suggested that the activity of ICa,L could sustain the [Ca2+]i transients associated with the action potential, leading to the activation of apamin-sensitive SK-type Ca2+-activated K+ channels and the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) following single spikes. In conclusion, an interplay between voltage-dependent inward (Na+ and Ca2+) and outward (SK) conductances is proposed to mediate the spontaneous pacemaker activity in cultured muscle myotubes during the process of myogenesis.	nld	Elsevier	2005	1.01	Biochimica et biophysica acta	4.224	2.996
10099739	Monitoring of the laser microdrilling of glass by the optodynamic method	During the pulsed-laser microdrilling process using nanosecond pulses, a plasma and a shockwave develop. In order to study their formation and propagation and investigate the possibilities for monitoring the process, we have developed a highly automated experimental setup utilizing two types of detectors: A high-speed beam-deflection probe and a camera equipped with a liquid-crystal light attenuator mounted on an optical microscope. By analyzing the data from both detectors we were able to develop a technique for the online monitoring of hole-depth during the pulsed-laser microdrilling process for glass. It is based on time-of-flight measurements of the shock wave and simultaneous determination of its source size.	usa	American Institute of Physics.	2007	1.01	Journal of applied physics	2.171	1.839
10099990	The COD reduction of wastewater using oxyl	The main objective of this work was to investigate the effectiveness of oxyl in removing the chemical oxygen demand (COD) from wastewater. Oxyl is a strong oxdizing solution generated by the electrolysis of w = 1 % NaCl brine solution from the well of the positive electrode in an electrolysing apparatus. The electron spin resonance (FSR) spin trap technique showed that several free radical species, with high oxidation potential, are present in oxyl solution. Experimental oxidations of industrial wastewater polluted by surfactants, were performed using oxyl (in the laboratory) and industrial scale yielding a COD reduction of up to 70 %. The implementation of wastewater treatment using oxyl in an industrial plant may considerably reduce the water pollution tax that companies are paying for wastewater discharge. An economic feasibility study of the investment was performed, which indicated the good economic potential of the procedure.	hrv	Croatian Society of Chemical Engineers	2005	1.01	Chemical and biochemical engineering quarterly	0.632	0.922
10100252	Financial stability in the Baltics	We test the hypothesis of procyclicality of banking sector results in the Baltic economies. Our estimates suggest that a slowdown in economic activity is likely to accelerate the growth of the nonperforming loan (NPL) ratio in the Baltics. They also support the hypothesis that a rapid growth of credit harms loan performance, most likely due to soft-loan constraints and macroeconomic overheating. Higher concentration in banking market coincides with relatively higher nonperforming loans. Compliance with the Basel core principles improves the quality of the loan portfolio.	cze	A.L.L. Production s.r.o.	2009	1.01	Finance a úvìr	0.264	1.113
10101788	The importance of family enterprises in transition economies	Family enterprises are important to many established market economies; however, little empirical research has been conducted to identify the importance and distinctiveness of family enterprises in post-socialist transition economies. Our exploratory study has attempted to fill this gap by examining how family ownership and management influence the performance and internalization of family businesses in transition economies and estimating their importance for these economies based on the case of Slovenia as one of the most developed European transition countries. Proposals and conclusions made could be useful for policy makers and family business owners-managers in other transition countries.	usa	M. E. Sharpe, Inc.	2009	1.01	Eastern European economics	0.189	1.013
10102550	Autonomous evolutionary algorithm in medical data analysis	An autonomous evolutionary algorithm for constructing decision trees is presented. The algorithm requires no or minimal human interaction and shows some interesting properties when used on different medical datasets. The algorithm uses a non-standard implicit fitness evaluation in the selection phase of a co-evolving environment. Together with self-adaptation of evolution parameters and with some other improvements it can monitor and adjust its own behavior. The algorithm's capability to self-adapt to a given problem is used as a measure to predict if some dataset is just difficult or impossible to analyze. The autonomous algorithm on average produces very general solutions or gives no solution if the dataset is prone to the overfitting problem.	nld	Elsevier	2005	1.01	Computer methods and programs in biomedicine	0.788	1.145
10103062	Knowledge discovery with classification ruls in a cardiovascular dataset	In this paper we study an evolutionary machine learning approach to data mining and knowledge discovery based on the induction of classification rules. A method for automatic rules induction called AREX using evolutionary induction of decision trees and automatic programming is introduced. The proposed algorithm is applied to a cardiovascular dataset consisting of different groups of attributes which should possibly reveal the presence of some specific cardiovascular problems in young patients. A case study is presented that shows the use of AREX for the classification of patients and for discovering possible new medical knowledge from the dataset. The defined knowledge discovery loop comprises a medical expert's assessment of induced rules to drive the evolution of rule sets towards more appropriate solutions. The final result is the discovery of a possible new medical knowledge in the field of pediatric cardiology.	nld	Elsevier	2005	1.01	Computer methods and programs in biomedicine	0.788	1.145
10103067	Review of green electricity production in Slovenia	The article presents a short review of electricity production from renewable energy sources in Slovenia. In Introduction the term of ""green electricity"" is defined. Comparison of structures of electricity production is presented forthe years 1990 and 2003. The main part of the article presents an approximate data for technical and theoretical potentials of renewable energy sources in Slovenia. State-of-the-art regarding individual technologies of electricity production from renewable energy sources and political targets according to Directive 2001/77/EC for green electricity are also presented. Atthe end of the article different stimulation models are described and uniform prices and premiums for the purchase of green electrical energy are presented.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2007	1.01	Renewable & sustainable energy reviews	3.774	1.073
10103068	Economic activity and natural gas as a potential destabilizer of the Slovenian economy	This article empirically investigates whether natural gas has the potential of destabilizing the Slovenian economy. The results confirmed the indirect relation that the increase in gas prices decelerates the dynamics of aggregate domestic consumption, which further decelerates activities in individual industries. An empirical analysis has proven that the natural gas does have the potential of forecasting production trends in individual industries within the Slovenian economy. By using the dynamics of natural gas price movements (and other explanatory variables), we can forecast the dynamics of movements in the production of textiles, leather, fur and clothes, rubber- and plastic-based products, metals, furniture, as well as in the processing industry, recycling, electricity, natural gas, steam and hot water supplies in Slovenia. The obtained results suggest that natural gas price shocks can influence economic activity beyond those explained by direct input cost effects and via the indirect effect of possibly delaying the purchase of goods.	rou	Expert	2009	1.01	Romanian Journal of Economic Forecasting	0.620	1.013
10103574	An approach to surface EMG decomposition based on higher-order cumulants	We are addressing a possible approach to the decomposition of surface electromyograms (SEMGs). It is based on higher-order cumulants implemented in a two-step procedure. Firstly, a multivariate version of the w-slice method is applied in order to extract coarse approximations of motor-unit action potentials (MUAPs) out of the measured SEMGs. Secondly, these coarse estimates are refined by modified Newton-Gauss iteration to achieve an optimum fit of the model-based and the observation-based cumulant estimates. All the necessary conditions are derived theoretically and, afterwards, implemented in simulation runs in order to prove the decomposition power of the proposed approach on synthetic SEMGs. The first-norm difference between the original and the decomposed MUAPs, obtained at the signal length of 102400 samples and expressed in percentage of the MUAP amplitude span, yields 5.4% in the noise-free case, 6.0% with a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of 10dB, and 6.5% with a SNR of O dB.	nld	Elsevier	2005	1.01	Computer methods and programs in biomedicine	0.788	1.145
10103830	Heat integration in a speciality product process	The essence of effective process designing is to use methods which are efficient to engineers in practice and not only to scientists. The proposed design procedure is composed of two steps: conceptual one and optimization one. At the conceptual step, pinch design analysis is used. In the optimization step pinch analysis and mixed-integer nonlinear programming method are applied. In the case study analysed, a speciality product is to beproduced in continuous chemical process with a capacity which causes smallerheat flow rates and needs smaller heat exchanger areas than usual. Therefore, an equation for cost estimation of heat exchangers with areas smaller than 7 m2 was developed and used in the optimization procedure. Using thermodynamic pinch analysis and mathematical programming method, the heat integrated structures were synthesized and compared with the base process flowsheet. Finally, the optimal structure was determined.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2006	1.01	Applied Thermal Engineering	0.814	0.741
10103835	Energy saving in building with PCM cold storage	This article presents an experimental and numerical analysis of cooling buildings using night-time cold accumulation in phase change material (PCM), otherwise known as the free-cooling principle. Experimental and numerical studies of the ceiling and floor free-cooling principle, as well as passive cooling, are presented. The free-cooling principle is explained and some of the types of PCMs suitable for summer cooling are listed. An experiment was conducted using paraffin with a melting point of 22°C as the PCM to store coldduring the night-time and to cool hot air during the daytime in summer. Air temperatures and heat fluxes as a function of time and dimensionless cold discharging values are presented for different air velocities. Experimental analysis of one week of measuring under real conditions is presented in order to show how cold storage functions.	gbr	Wiley-Interscience.	2007	1.01	International journal of energy research	0.701	0.663
10105110	Microtiter plate assay for phosphate using a euporium-tetracyline complex as a sensitive luminiscent probe	A new luminescent europium probe is presented for the determination of phosphate (P) in microtiter plate format. The assay is based on the quenching of the luminescence of the europium-tetracycline (EuTc) 1:1 complex by phosphate using a reagent concentration of 20.8 ?$\mu$? mol/L. The probe is excited at 400 nm and displays a large Stokes' shift of 210 nm. The emission maximum is located at 616 nm. The system works best at neutral pH 7 and is therefore suitable for phosphate determination in biological and biochemical systems. The linear range of the calibration plot is from 5 x ?$10^{-6}? mol/L to 7.5 x ?$10{-4}$? mol/L of phosphate, and the limit of detection is 3 ?$\mu$? mol/L.	nld	Elsevier	2006	1.01	Analytica chimica acta	2.894	1.727
10105366	Building interactive virtual environments for simulated training in medicine using VMRL and Java/JavaScript	Medicine is a difficult thing to learn. Experimenting with real patients should not be the only option; simulation deserves a special attention here. Virtual Reality Modelling Language (VRML) as a tool for building virtual objects and scenes has a good record of educational applications in medicine, especially for static and animated visualisations of body parts and organs. However, to create computer simulations resembling situations in real environments the required level of interactivity and dynamics is difficult to achieve. In the present paper we describe some approaches and techniques which we used to push the limits of the current VRML technology further toward dynamic 3D representation of virtual environments (VEs). Our demonstration is based on the implementation of a virtual baby model, whose vital signs can be controlled from an external Java application. The main contributions of this work are: (a) outline and evaluation of the three-level VRML/ Java implementation of the dynamic virtual environment, (b) proposal for a modified VRML TimeSensor node, which greatly improves the overall control of system performance, and (c) architecture of the prototype distributed virtual environment for training in neonatal resuscitation comprising the interactive virtual newborn, active bedside monitor for vital signs and full 3D representation of the surgery room.	nld	Elsevier	2005	1.01	Computer methods and programs in biomedicine	0.788	1.145
10105622	Accuracy of intelligent medical systems	Intelligent medical systems are a special kind of medical software in general, and just as any medical software system they should make accurate presumptions. However, accuracy of intelligent medical systems is highly dependent on various factors such as: choosing an appropriate basic method (i.e. decision trees, neural networks), induction method (i.e. purity measures) and appropriate support methods (i.e. discretization, pruning, boosting). In this paper we present the results of extensive research of the above alternatives on 54 UCI databases and their influence on the accuracy of decision trees, which constitute one of the most desirable forms of intelligent medical systems. We also introduce new hybrid purity measures that on some databases outperform other purity measures. The results presented here show that the selection of the right purity measure with the proper discretization method and application of the boosting method can really make a difference in terms of higher accuracy of induced decision trees. Thereafter choosing the appropriate factors that can increase the accuracy of the induced decision tree is a very demanding and time-consuming task.	nld	Elsevier	2005	1.01	Computer methods and programs in biomedicine	0.788	1.145
10105884	The trade deficit and banking sector results in Romania and Bulgaria	We tested for the significance of macroeconomic variables that condition non-performing loan ratios. Our estimates for Bulgaria and Romania support the hypothesis that the growth of available finance might harm banking performance and deteriorate NPL dynamics, most probably due to the overheatingof economies. Since we confirmed that the dynamics of net exports of these economies deteriorated the NPL ratio, the weakening of growth in export-oriented industries could lead to economic contraction with a direct impact on the sustainability of banking-sector results in these countries. Large current account deficits are typical for emerging markets and do not pose a problem as long as they are caused by the importing of capital goods, and, if future export growth is strong enough to reimburse foreign debt. Structural dependence on external financing - which is in part a by-product of the effect of low levels of internal saving - have led to large current account deficits and financial instability.	rou	Editura ASE	2010	1.01	Amfiteatru economic	0.320	1.022
10106646	Enzymatic activity of L-amino acid oxidase from snake venom Crotalus adamanteus in supercritical CO2	L-amino acid oxidase (L-AAO) from snake venom Crotalus adamanteus was successfully tested as a catalyst in supercritical CO2 (SC-CO2). The enzyme activity was measured before and after exposure to supercritical conditions (40°C, 110 bar). It was found that L-AAO activity slightly increased after SC-CO 2 exposure by up to 15%. L-AAO was more stable in supercritical CO 2 than in phosphate buffer under atmospheric pressure, as well as in the enzyme membrane reactor (EMR) experiment. 3,4-Dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine (L-DOPA) oxidation was performed in a batch reactor made of stainless steel that could withstand the pressures of SC-CO2, in which L-amino acid oxidase from C. adamanteus was able to catalyze the reaction of oxidative deamination of L-DOPA in SC-CO2 . For the comparison L-DOPA oxidation was performed in the EMR at 40°C and pressure of 2.5 bar. Productivity expressed as mmol-s of converted L-DOPA after 3h per change of enzyme activity after 3h was the highest in SC-CO 2 (1.474mmolU -1 ), where catalase was present, and the lowest in the EMR (0.457mmolU -1 ).	gbr	Harwood Academic Publishers	2005	1.01	Biocatalysis and biotransformation	1.516	2.284
10106907	Far field measurement of optodynamic source size	A micro-explosion occurring after pulsed laser-induced breakdown in water can be effectively described as an optodynamic phenomenon. It is a source of shockwaves that propagate into the surrounding medium. We present a measurement of the source size based on far field detection of the propagatingwaves using a beam deflection probe technique. By taking into consideration the moving breakdown model the relation between the size of the breakdown region and the apparent size of the optodynamic source is shown. An energy dependent enlargement parameter d is introduced which describes the relation.	deu	Springer Internat.	2007	1.01	Applied physics	2.280	1.124
10107670	A multidomain boundary element method for two equation turbulence models	The paper deals with the multidomain Boundary Element Method (BEM) for modelling 2D complex turbulent flow using low Reynolds two equation turbulence models. While the BEM is widely accepted for laminar flow this is the first case, where this method is applied for complex flow problems using ?$k-\epsilon$? turbulence model. The integral boundary domain equations are discretised using mixed boundary elements and a multidomain method also known as subdomain technique. The resulting system matrix is overdetermined, sparse, block banded and solved using fast iterative linear least squares solver. The simulation of turbulent flow over a backward step is in excellent agreement with the finite volume method using the same turbulent model.	nld	Elsevier	2005	1.01	Engineering analysis with boundary elements	0.894	0.597
10108955	A laser probe measurement of cavitation bubble dynamics improved by shock wave detection and compared to shadow photography	High-intensity light from a laser pulse can produce optical breakdown in a liquid, followed by a shock wave and the growth of a cavitation bubble. When the bubble reaches its maximum radius the liquid pressure causes it to collapse, which in turn initiates the growth of another bubble. The oscillations can repeat themselves several times, and a shock wave is emitted after every collapse. In our study the breakdown was induced in distilled water by a Nd:YAG pulsed laser, which was designed for ocular photodisruption.The main focus of our experiments was measurement of the cavitation bubble and the shock waves using an optical probe based on deflections of a laser beam. The applied experimental setup made it possible to carry out one- or two-dimensional scanning of the cavitation bubble based on automatic control of the experiment. Since the beam-deflection probe (BDP) allowed simultaneous measurements of the cavitation bubble and the shock waves, we developed a method for reducing the measurement noise of the BDP scanning. This improvement includes an analysis of the secondary shock waves and leads to a significant reduction in the noise of the measurement. Simultaneous measurements based on shadow photography were used as a comparative method during the experiment.	usa	American Institute of Physics.	2007	1.01	Journal of applied physics	2.171	1.839
10109529	An extension of the Bolsinov-Fomenko theorem on orbital classification of integrable Hamiltonian systems	The main result of the paper is an extension of the Bolsinov-Fomenko theorem on topological orbital classification of non-degenerate integrable Hamiltonian systems with two degrees of freedom on 3-dimensional constant energy manifolds (1994). Namely, it is shown that their restriction that the integral has no critical circles with non-orientable separatrix diagrams can be omitted. Our proof is based on an analogue of obstruction theory for certain type of Seifert fibrations.	usa	Rocky Mountain Mathematics Consortium.	2000	1.01	Rocky Mountain journal of mathematics	0.213	0.495
10109979	Effect of cooling rate on enthalpy and volume relaxation of polystirene	This paper presents the results of measurements of physical aging on polystyrene with a narrow molecular weight distribution (Mw/Mn = 1.03). The evolution of the aging process was followed by recording the relaxed enthalpy and the accompanying decrease in volume, using differential scanning calorimetry and mercury-in-glass dilatometry, respectively. The measurements were carried out after cooling the sample at constant rate to the aging temperature. The cooling rate varied between 0.0037 and 1 °Cžmin. The aging data were fitted with the KWW and the TNM functions. The differences in the time scales of enthalpy, h, and volume, v, relaxation were relatively small. From the h(v) graphs the derivative dh/dv was found to amount to about 1.8 GPa, a value significantly exceeding the predictions of the thermodynamic model containing an additional internal variable.	nld	North-Holland Publishing Co	2007	1.01	Journal of non-crystalline solids	1.319	0.62
10110235	Operating regimes of an unconventional radial pump stage	This paper presents some phenomena concerning the stability problem of the basic flow direction observed within the CFD analyses of an unconventional radial pump stage (RPS). In order to preclude defining the flow direction as aboundary condition, a closed hydraulic system was modelled to investigate theoperating behaviour of the RPS and its energy characteristics. It was shownthat the basic flow direction through the RPS is determined by the level of hydraulic losses within the closed hydraulic system. Combining the closed and open hydraulic system calculations, all possible operating regimes of the analysed RPS are presented by means of 4-quadrant chart.	deu	VDI-Verlag GmbH	2007	1.01	Forschung im Ingenieurwesen	0.157	0.706
10110553	Lifting graph automorphisms by voltage assignments	The problem of lifting graph automorphisms along covering projections is considered in a purely combinatorial setting. The main tools employed are: (1) a systematic use of fundamental grupoid; (2) unification of ordinary, relative and permutation voltage constructions into the concept of a voltage space; (3) various kinds of invariance of voltage spaces relative to automorphism groups; and (4) investigation of geometry of the lifted actions by means of transverzals over a localization set. Some applications of these results to regular maps of surfaces are given. Because of certain natural applications and greater generality, graphs are allowed to have semiedges. This requires careful re-examination of the whole subject and at the same time leads to simplification and generalization of several known results.	gbr	Academic Press	2000	1.01	European journal of combinatorics	0.267	0.495
10111003	Buckling and post-buckling of a nonlinearly elastic column	The classical problem of buckling of an inextensible elastic column, under theaction of a compressive force is examined. The column is made of nonlinearly elastic material for which the stress-strain relation is represented by the Ludwick constitutive law. An approximative formula for determination of the force at immediate post-buckling is given. Further post-buckling solutions are obtained for different values of the nonlinearity parameter by numerical integration using the Runge-Kutta-Fehlberg algorithm, and are presented in non-dimensional diagrams. It is shown that no bifurcation point is found in the case of nonlinearly elastic column.	deu	Wiley-VCH	2007	1.01	Zeitschrift für angewandte Mathematik und Mechanik	0.550	0.817
10111510	Microstructure analysis of internally oxidized Cu-C composite	On the basis of experimentally obtained data, it was established that submicron-size bubbles are formed by the internal oxidation of Cu-C composite with fine dispersed graphite particles. They are homogeneously distributed in the Cu-matrix. This process starts with the dissolution of oxygen into the metal at the free surfaces, and continues with the diffusion of oxygen atoms into the volume of copper crystal lattice where they react with the graphite particles. The reactions of dissolved oxygen with carbon yield the gas products (CO2, CO), which cannot be dissolved in the crystal lattice of the matrix. The gas molecules, which are enclosed in the space previously occupied by the graphite, have a greater specific volume than the solid graphite. Consequently, compressive stresses arise in the copper matrix around the bubbles. The interaction of these stress fields with gliding dislocations during loading could improve the mechanical properties of the copper. The internal oxidation kinetic in Cu-C composite depends on the diffusion of oxygen in the copper matrix, and the penetration depth of the internal oxidation front indicates the parabolic nature of the process.	hrv	Metalurški fakultet;Hrvatsko metalurško društvo	2006	1.01	Metalurgija	0.126	0.68
10111515	Non-prismatic non-linearly elastic cantilever beams subjected to an end moment	This paper analyzes large deflection profiles of slender, inextensible cantilever beams of prismatic and non-prismatic longitudinal shapes with rectangular cross-sections subjected to a concentrated moment at the free end.The stress/strain relationship of the material is represented by the Ludwick constitutive law. Different non-linear stress/strain relations in tensile and compressive domain are considered. The main purpose of this paper is to investigate the influence of geometrical and material non-linearities onthe shape of the deflection curve. The solution of a strongly non-linear setof equations is obtained numerically. In the case when non-linear stress/strain relationship in tensile and compressive domain is identical, an analytical solution is given in terms of infinite series. Several examples fora variety of different shapes of beams are presented considering both linearly and non-linearly elastic materials in the elastic domain.	usa	Technomic Pub. Co.	2007	1.01	Journal of reinforced plastics and composites	0.417	0.754
10112283	A new approach to roughness-induced vibrations on a slider	In the past, roughness effects were included in models by using various friction laws. In contrast, this study deals with simple Poisson impact and Coulomb friction laws on multiple concurrent contacts between geometrically random rough surfaces and their effect on the slider's roughness-induced vibrations. The closed-form solutions derived here relate roughness-induced vibrations to the surface roughness, slider mass, slider load, slider dimensions, relative sliding speed, and the coefficient of restitution. Wear influences were studied by simulating random rough surfaces with multiple concurrent contacts. Contrary to expectations we found that random roughness can induce slider vibrations of distinct frequencies. We found a good agreement between the results of the studied models and the experiments. The closed-form solution was found to be suitable for estimating the roughness-induced vibration frequencies of a hard-disk drive's writing/readinghead and those of a car-brake's pad (known as squeal-noise).	gbr	Academic Press	2007	1.01	Journal of Sound and Vibration	1.024	0.706
10113307	Investigation of re-entant jet reflection at an inclined cavity closure line	Cavitation on two-dimensional hydrofoils with swept leading edges always displays some 3-dimensional effects. It is well known that the cavity closure on such hydrofoil is not perpendicular to the channel walls, but is curved in a distinctive pattern. The cavitation pocket is longer in the region where thehydrofoil is the shortest. Also the dynamics of cavitation is very distinctive. In the region where the hydrofoil is the longest attached and steady cavitation with no cloud separation exists. On the other side, where the hydrofoil is the shortest, cavitation cloud separations occur.	gbr	Gauthier-Villars;Elsevier	2007	1.01	European journal of mechanics	0.632	1.049
10115099	An investigation of the relationship between acoustic emission, vibration, noise and cavitation structures on a Kaplan turbine	The goal of the study was to explain the relationship between different acoustic signals and visual appearance of cavitation. Measurements of acousticemission, vibration, and noise were performed on a Kaplan turbine model, with only two blades, in a cavitating condition. Since a model with only two blades was used, most of the side effects were eliminated, and it was concluded that the cavitation itself is the source of the recorded signal. Results showed an interesting relationship between the extent of the cavitation and the recorded data from sensors. At a decreasing cavitation number, the recorded amplitudes from all measurements first rose, experienced a local maximum, then fell to a local minimum, and finally rose again. The cavitation was also visually observed. It was concluded from the measurements that there are distinct correlations between acoustic emission, vibration, andnoise on one side and the topology, extent, and type of cavitation structures on the other side. A physical explanation for the phenomenon was introduced and included in a semi-empirical model that links the visual appearance of cavitation on the blade of the turbine to the generated noise and vibration.	usa	American Society of Mechanical Engineers	2007	1.01	Journal of fluids engineering	0.571	0.706
1011849	Empirical model of wood staining by tannin-based stains	Colour parameters L*, a*, b* of the colour system depend mainly on chemical composition of the stain used in wood finishing. The choice, which influences the appearance of wood surface colour, can be optimised by introducing multivariable analysis methods. By means of cluster analysis and multiple regression methods we succeeded in defining a procedure of selection of optimum composition of materials for the required wood colour parameters.	svk	Alfa	2003	1.01	Drevársky výskum	0.091	0.437
10119190	Modeling of impact toughness of cold formed material by genetic programming	In the paper, an approach completely different from the conventional methods for determination of accurate models for the change of properties of cold formed material, is presented. This approach is genetic programming (GP) method which is based on imitation of natural evolution of living organisms. The main characteristic of GP is its non-deterministic way of computing. No assumptions about the form and size of expressions were made in advance, but they were left to the self organization and intelligence of evolutionary process. First, copper alloy rods were cold drawn under different conditions and then impact toughness of cold drawn specimens was determined by Charpy tests. The values of independent variables (effective strain, coefficient of friction) influence the value of the dependent variable, impact toughness. On the basis of training data, different prediction models for impact toughness were developed by GP. Only the best models, gained by genetic programming were presented in the paper. Accuracy of the best models was proved with the testing data set. The comparison between deviation of genetic model results and regression model results concerning the experimental results has showed that genetic models are more precise and more varied then regression models.	nld	Elsevier	2006	1.01	Computational materials science	1.104	1.659
10119195	Free cooling of a building utilizing PCM heat storage integrated into the ventilation system	This article presents a study of the free cooling of a low-energy building using a latent-heat thermal energy storage (LHTES) device integrated into a mechanical ventilation system. The cylindrical LHTES device was filled with spheres of encapsulated RT20 paraffin, a phase-change material (PCM). A numerical model of the LHTES was developed to identify the parameters that have an influence on the LHTES`s thermal response, to determine the optimum phase-change temperature and to form the LHTES`s temperature-response function. The last of these defines the LHTES`s outlet-air temperature for a periodic variation of the inlet ambient-air temperature and the defined operating conditions. The temperature-response function was then integrated into the TRNSYS building thermal response model. Numerical simulations showed that a PCM with a melting temperature between 20 and 22 °C is the most suitable for free cooling in the case of a continental climate. The analyses of the temperatures in a low-energy building showed that free cooling with an LHTES is an effective cooling technique. Suitable thermal comfort conditions in the presented case-study building could be achieved using an LHTES with 6.4kg of PCM per square metre of floor area.	usa	Association for Applied Solar Energy	2007	1.01	Solar energy	1.519	1.073
10119446	Prediction of maintenance of sinus rhythm after electrical cardioversion of atrial fibrillation by non-deterministic modelling	Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common rhythm disorder. Because of the high recurrence rate of AF after cardioversion and because of potential side effects of electrical cardioversion, it is clinically important to predict persistence of sinus rhythm after electrical cardioversion before it is attempted. The aim of our study was the development of a mathematical model by""genetic"" programming (GP), a non-deterministic modelling technique, which would predict maintenance of sinus rhythm after electrical cardioversion of persistent AF. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ninety-seven patients with persistent AF lasting more than 48 h, undergoing the first attempt at transthoracic cardioversion were included in this prospective study. Persistence of AF before the cardioversion attempt, amiodarone treatment, left atrial dimension,mean, standard deviation and approximate entropy of ECG R-R intervals were collected. The data of 53 patients were randomly selected from the database and used for GP modelling; the other 44 data sets were used for model testing. RESULTS: In 23 patients sinus rhythm persisted at 3 months. In the other 21 patients sinus rhythm was not achieved or its duration was less than 3 months. The model developed by GP failed to predict maintenance ofsinus rhythm at 3 months in one patient and in six patients falsely predicted maintenance of sinus rhythm. Positive and negative likelihood ratiosof the model for testing data were 4.32 and 0.05, respectively. Using this model 15 of 21 (71.4%) cardioversions not resulting in sinus rhythm at 3 months would have been avoided, whereas 22 of 23 (95.6%) cardioversions resulting in sinus rhythm at 3 months would have been administered. CONCLUSION: This model developed by GP, including clinical data, ECG data from the time-domain and nonlinear dynamics can predict maintenance of sinus rhythm. Further research is needed to explore its utility in the present or anexpanded form.	gbr	W.B. Saunders	2005	1.01	Europace	1.461	2.204
10120475	Verification of numerical determination of carrying capacity of large rolling bearings with hardened raceway	For the purpose of the numerical analysis of the actual carrying capacity of rolling contacts in large rolling bearings with surface-hardened raceways, an elasto-plastic constitutive model was used which links the mechanics of material damage with the isotropic and kinematic hardening or softening. A damage material model, implemented into a commercial finite element program, allows us to monitor the elastic strain, plastic strain increase, stress changes and material damage growth, which are closely related to the number ofload cycles. In this way, the location and the time of occurrence of bearing raceway damage can be determined along with the growth of damage up to the point when a microcrack is formed. In other words, low cycle life of rotational rolling connection can be assessed. The paper presents the material model, numerical analysis of the actual carrying capacity of the rolling contact in single-row ball bearings and the verification of the numerical material model with experimental results of low cycle carrying capacity.	gbr	Butterworth Scientific Limited	2007	1.01	International journal of fatigue	1.117	0.706
10121244	Inflation after the introduction of the Euro	The article contributes to the existing empirical evidence on the impact of the macroeconomic environment on retail prices dynamics by using panel estimates to explain inflation in Slovenia after the introduction of the euro. We evaluated the impact of diesel fuel prices, food prices on the world market, GDP, the bank loans to the private sector, import prices, the earnings of major merchants and the production prices for retail prices of alimentary products. The earnings of major merchants, import prices and GDP growth contributed significantly to the incline of the retail prices in the first period observed. While, the results of the empirical analysis state that the cause of increased incline of the retail prices of alimentary products after May 2007 can be attributed, mostly to the earnings of major merchants, volume of credit, world food prices, the price of diesel fuel and import prices. The impact of producers' prices was insignificant in both periods observed.	svk	Vydavateåstvo Slovenskej akadémie vied	2009	1.01	Ekonomický èasopis	0.237	1.013
10121500	Life cycle assessment of ship-generated waste management of Luka Koper	Sea ports and the related maritime activities (e.g. shipping, shipbuilding, etc.) are one of the main driver of Europe's growth, jobs, competitiveness and prosperity. The continuously growth of shipping sectors has however introduced some environmental concerns, particularly with respect to ship-generated waste management. The port of Koper, one of the major ports on the northern Adriatic Coast, is the focus of this study. In this paper, a lifecycle assessment was performed to identify and quantify the environmental impacts caused by the ship-generated waste management of port of Koper. Carcinogens substance (e.g. dioxins) and inorganic emissions, especially heavy metals, resulted to be the most critical environmental issues, while the fossil fuels consumption is reduced by recovery of ship-generated oils. Moreover, the final treatment of ship waste was found to be critical phase of the management, and the landfill have a significant contribute to the overall environmental load. These results can be useful in the identification of the best practices and in the implementation of waste management plans in ports.	usa	Pergamon	2009	1.01	Waste management	2.433	1.7
10121755	Measurements on rotating blades using IR thermography	This paper presents an experimental and CFD numerical study of convective heattransfer and flow field characteristics in a rotating rotor cascade. Surface temperature distribution on a rotating heated blade was measured by means of infrared thermography, which proved highly advantageous over standard temperature sensors due to its completely non-intrusive nature. The experimental facility, IR thermography method, and the CFD numerical model that was made according to the actual test rig geometry and operating conditions, are described in detail. For the present study, tests were carriedout in an iposonic flow regime at relatively low fluid temperatures, with the Rotational number varied and hot-to-cool air mass flow ratio and Reynolds number kept constant. Experimental and numerical results for the blade pressure side were found to be in good agreement. Analysis of the results focused on the influence of rotation and black paint thermal conductivity on heat transfer through the blade. The results, presented in terms of Nusselt number distribution along the blade midspan, show the influence of rotational number on convective heat transfer. Interpretation of numerical results showed that the black paint coating imposes additional thermal resistance to heat conduction, which can affect temperature distribution on the painted surfaces. With increasing rotational number and all other influential parameters kept constant, heat transfer intensifies, which is reflected in increased Nusselt numbers along the blade midspan.	usa	Elsevier Science Publ.	2007	1.01	ETF science	0.774	0.706
10121756	The perspective of pension system reforms in the new member states	Because of growing awareness of financial needs for public pensions, attention has been focused on privatization of the pension systems. While the privatization of pension funds can encourage development of capital markets in NMS, equity investment in transition economies are even more volatile than in the ""old"" capitalist countries. Privatized pension system coincides with investment risks, higher administrative costs, and inability of private markets to provide retirees with affordable, indexed and certain annuities. Namely, private sector may not provide enough investment projects to efficiently absorb mandated pension savings and the expected pension income is subject to a number of risks: poor and volatile investment returns, longevity, and inflation eroding the purchasing power of pensions. Indeed, the PAYG system appears to be the only viable system to perform well in terms of risk and volatility of returns.	cze	University of Economics	2009	1.01	Prague Economic Papers	0.390	1.022
10122011	Heat transfer study in rotating cascade using IR thermography and CFD analyses	This paper presents an experimental and CFD numerical study of convective heattransfer in a rotating cascade. Infrared thermography was used to measure surface temperature distribution on a rotating hollow blade, heated internallyby secondary air. A CFD numerical model was made according to the actual test rig geometry and operating conditions. Tests were carried out in an iposonic flow regime at relatively low fluid temperatures, with the rotational and Reynolds numbers varied and hot-to-cool air mass flow ratio kept constant. Experimental and numerical results for the blade pressure side are compared in terms of surface temperature 2D distribution and Nusselt number one-dimensional distribution along the blade midspan, providing a reasonable agreement.	deu	Springer;Springer-Verl. New York	2008	1.01	Heat and mass transfer	0.873	1.21
10124377	On contractible n-dimensional compacta, non-embeddable into R [sup] {2n}	We present a very short proof of a well-known result, that for each ?$n \ge 2$? there exist a contractible ?$n$?-dimensional compactum, non-embeddable into ?$\RR^{2n}$?.	usa	American Mathematical Society	2001	1.01	Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society	0.369	0.48
10128411	Annular shaft kiln for lime burning with kiln gas recirculation	During the operation of certain older types of annular shaft kilns used for lime burning, one may encounter the dilemma of how to operate the kiln at an optimal air excess ratio. Due to excessively high temperatures in the combustion chambers at optimal air excess ratio, the flame must be cooled witha greater amount of relatively cold secondary air. This results in greaterheat loss with the exhaust kiln gas (stack losses), greater fuel consumption and lower kiln efficiency. The effects of increasing air excess ratio during the process of lime burning in an annular shaft kiln are specifically analysed. The paper presents a case of a remodelled annular shaftkiln, in which the air excess ratio can be reduced to its optimal level by recirculation of recuperator waste gas and its injection into the combustion chambers. This also reduces stack losses, while the temperatures inthe combustion chambers remain within the permissible range, which means that the specific energy consumption for lime burning is reduced.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2008	1.01	Applied Thermal Engineering	1.349	0.986
10130198	Extraction of active ingredients from green tea (Camellia sinensis): extraction efficiency of major catechins and caffeine	The effect of different extraction set-ups that influence the extraction efficiency of catechins and caffeine from green tea leaves (variety Fanning Belas, China) were studied using different aqueous and pure solvents (acetone,ethanol, methanol, acetonitrile, water), different temperatures (60, 80, 95 and 100 °C) and times (5-240 min). Raw extracts were analysed for contents of major catechins (EC, EGC, ECG, EGCG), caffeine, proanthocyanidins and flavonols (myricetin, caempherol, quercetin). Starting material was found to contain 191 g major catechins/kg material, 36 g caffeinežkg material and 5.2 g flavonols/kg material on a dry mass basis. The content of major catechins in green tea extracts varied from approximately 280-580 g/kg dry extract, with extraction efficiencies of major catechins varying from 61% to almost 100%. Content of caffeine in extract was in the range of 75 g/kg, where its extraction efficiency varied from 62% to 76%. Average extraction yield was 30% with exceptions when using pure acetone and acetonitrile, where extraction yield was about 3%. Contents of flavonols and proanthocyanidins were in the ranges 6-20 and 12-19 g/kg, respectively. Different extraction procedures with water were also investigated and optimal conditions determined: maximum achieved extraction efficiency of catechins with water wasobtained at 80 °C after 20 min (97%) and at 95 °C after 10 min of extraction (90%). Degradation of catechins was observed at higher extraction temperatures and with prolonged extraction times. Using a lower ratio of solvent to material, extraction efficiencies were increased by applying a multi-step extraction procedure. Optimal extraction procedure was then performed using decaffeinated green tea leaves, which were obtained by high-pressure extraction with CO2, when 98% of caffeine was selectively isolated without significant impact on valuable catechins.	nld	Applied Science Publishers	2006	1.01	Food chemistry	2.433	1.025
10134555	Liquid crystal transition induced by spherical particles in anisotropic polymer brushes	A change in the structure of a polymer brush formed by chains composed of anisotropic monomers brought about by filling the volume of the system with free spherical particles was studied by means of molecular dynamics simulation. Microphase separation takes place at a certain concentration of spherical particles inside the brush. A microphase that contains a small amount of isotropic particles and is characterized by a high density and high ordering of the monomers is formed near the wall. A disordered microphase witha low monomer density and a high concentration of spherical particles is located at the periphery of the brush. The microphases are separated from one another by a distinct boundary. As the concentration of isotropic particles further increases, the ordered microphase expands until the entire volume of the brush becomes occupied. It was also found that the brush in the ordered state forms different LC structures, namely, smectic or nematic entities at relatively low concentrations or at higher concentrations of spheres, respectively.	gbr	Pergamon.	2007	1.01	Polymer science	0.696	1.528
10135062	Analytical calculation of diffusion coefficients and other transport properties in binary mixtures	The note features the mathematical model of computing binary diffusion coefficient, thermal diffusion factor and viscosity in the real-gas region on the basis of nonequilibrium statistical mechanics. For the analytical calculation of transport properties, we have used the Kihara and Chapman-Cowling model up to the third order. In the presented note we calculated transport properties for mixtures between carbon monoxide and helium. We have developed the new mixing rules for the calculation of transport properties for mixtures. The analytical results obtained by statistical mechanics are compared with the experimental data and they show relatively good agreement.	usa	American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics	2006	1.01	Journal of thermophysics and heat transfer	0.805	0.741
10137878	Approach to optimization of cutting conditions by using artificial neural networks	Optimum selection of cutting conditions importantly contribute to the increase of productivity and the reduction of costs, therefore utmost attention is paid to this problem in this contribution. In this paper, a neural network-based approach to complex optimization of cutting parameters is proposed. It describes the multi-objective technique of optimization of cutting conditions by means of the neural networks taking into consideration the technological, economic and organizational limitations. To reach higher precision of the predicted results, a neural optimization algorithm is developed and presented to ensure simple, fast and efficient optimization of all important turning parameters. The approach is suitable for fast determination of optimum cutting parameters during machining, where there is not enough time for deep analysis. To demonstrate the procedure and performance of the neural network approach, an illustrative example is discussed in detail.	nld	Elsevier	2006	1.01	Journal of materials processing technology	0.615	0.702
10140187	The influence of periodic operation on the characteristics of adsorption devices	In this paper, we elaborate on the improvement of the design of adsorption heat pump cycles by combining economic and thermodynamic information. A methodis used, which results in a relation between the performance and the specific cost of the device. The performance, of course, is given in terms of COP. The cost is approximated by a figure for the required area for heat exchange, which includes all the cost for the heat exchange equipment that is required to exchange heat with the environment (hot and cold heat source, heatsink). Because these costs represent a major part of the investment cost for the device, we use it our calculations.	gbr	Pergamon	2006	1.01	Energy Conversion and Management	1.325	0.905
10140505	A continuation method for right definite two-parameter eigenvalue problem	The continuation method has been successfully applied to the classical ?$Ax = \lambda x$? and to the generalized ?$Ax = \lambda Bx$? eigenvalue problem. Shimasaki applied the continuation method to the right definite two-parameter problem, which resulted in a discretization of a two-parameter Sturm-Liouville problem. We show that the continuation method can be used for a general right definite two-parameter problem and we give a sketch of the algorithm. For a local convergent method we use the tensor Rayleigh quotient iteration (TRQI), which is a generalization of the Rayleigh iterative method to two-parameter problems. We show its convergence and compare it with Newton's method and with the generalizede Rayleigh quotient iteration (GRQI), studied by Ji, Jiang, and Lee.	usa	SIAM	2000	1.01	SIAM journal on matrix analysis and applications	1.182	0.664
10141212	Homomorphisms of matrix semigroups over division rings from dimension two to four	Let ?$\mathbb{D}$? be an arbitrary division ring and ?$M_n(\mathbb{D})$? the multiplicative semigroup of all ?$n \times n$? matrices over ?$\mathbb{D}$?. We study non-degenerate, injective homomorphisms from ?$M_2(\mathbb{D})$? to ?$M_4(\mathbb{D})$?. In particular, we present a structural result for the case when ?$\mathbb{D}$? is the ring of quaternions.	usa	North Holland	2010	1.01	Linear Algebra and its Applications	1.005	0.936
10142486	Suspectibility to hydrogen induced cracking of weld beads on high-strength structural steel	We study the hydrogen embrittlement and rupture of specimens of high-strength low-alloy steel with weld beads subjected to hydrogenation under the conditions of cathodic polarization. The specimens fail in the heat-affected zone on the boundary between the main metal and the weld bead in the zone of application of the latter and, especially, near its end. This explained by a higher hardness of the metal in this zone caused by the specific features of the temperature field formed in the process of welding.	usa	Consultants Bureau	2005	1.01	Materials science	0.165	1.429
10142998	Utjecaj konstrukcije preðe s elastanom na relaksacijska svojstva tkanina	In textile materials subjected to the impact of tensile force deformations appear in the form of increased length in the direction of force impact. After relaxation, one part of the deformation disappears immediately due to viscoelasticity, one part disapears with time (elastic deformation retained), while the last part remains as a durable irreversible deformation. The influence of the yarn construction containing elastane on the viscoelatic behaviour of fabrics and their relaxation properties has been studied. The influence of the yarn covered with elastane core on relaxation properties in fabrics as a response to tensile strength has also been considered. The results show an important influence of the elastane yarn construction on relaxation phenomena in fabrics.	hrv	Hrvatski inženjerski savez tekstilaca	2005	1.01	Tekstil	0.161	0.539
1014641	A convenient synthesis of 4-aminomethyl-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1,3-benzothiazole arginine side-chain mimetics	A convenient synthesis of novel 4-aminomethyl-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1,3-benzothiazole arginine side-chain mimetics designed for incorporation into thrombin inhibitors is reported.	nld	Pergamon Press	2001	1.01	Tetrahedron letters	2.280	1.954
10147929	Linear recurrences with constant coefficients: the multivariate case	While in the univariate case solutions of linear recurrences with constant coefficients have rational generating functions, we show that the multivariate case is much richer: even though initial conditions have rational generating functions, the corresponding solutions have generating functions which are algebraic but not rational, D-finite but not algebraic, and even non D-finite.	nld	North-Holland	2000	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.294	0.495
10148118	Design of the optimal total site heat recovery system using SSSP approach	Site expansions or changes in production capacities are usually related with changes of utilities demands andžor utility system design. Despite several available and well established techniques for process synthesis and integration, very often, changes in process designs are made on the basis of intuition and experiences of engineers. In this paper possibilities of rational energy consumption and energy integration in an existing site for production of specialty chemicals were studied. On the basis of real process parameters and computer simulation results energy integration was re-examined.Total site analysis using modified Site Sink Source Profiles, which gives a profound insight into the site utility system configuration, heating-cooling demands and cogeneration design was performed. The existing site was found to be very well designed. With only few modifications additional 9% of hot utilities and 5% of cold utilities savings are possible.	nld	Elsevier Sequoia	2006	1.01	Chemical engineering and processing	1.129	0.921
10148374	Computational approach to contact fatigue damage initiation analysis of gear teeth flanks	The paper describes a general computational model for the simulation of contact fatigue-damage initiation in the contact area of meshing gears. The model considers the continuum mechanics approach, where the use of homogenous and elastic material is assumed. The stress field in the contact area and the relationship between the cyclic contact loading conditions and observed contact points on the tooth flank are simulated with moving Hertzian contact pressure in the framework of the finite element method analysis. An equivalentmodel of Hertzian contact between two cylinders is used for evaluating contact conditions at the major point of contact of meshing gears. For the purpose of fatigue-damage analysis, the model, which is used for prediction of the number of loading cycles required for initial fatigue damageto appear, is based on the Coffin-Manson relationship between deformations and loading cycles. On the basis of computational results, and with consideration of some particular geometrical and material parameters, theinitiation life of contacting spur gears in regard to contact fatigue damage can be estimated.	gbr	IFS Publications	2007	1.01	International journal, advanced manufacturing technology	0.378	0.656
10151446	Measurement of alternating magnetic properties of grain-oriented materials using a round rotation single sheet tester	This paper presents a measurement of grain-oriented electrical steel under pure alternating magnetic flux condition at inclination angles from -900 to 900 with respect to the rolling direction (RD). The measurement was carried out using around rotational single sheet tester. The results show a strong asymmetry of alternating power loss and magnetic field strength with respect to the RD. The alternating power loss depends on the side of the band where the specimen was cut off.	nld	North-Holland	2006	1.01	Physica	0.872	2.274
10151958	Transient anisotropic magntic field calculation	For anisotropic magnetic material, nonlinear magnetic characteristics of the material are described with magnetization curves for different magnetization directions. The paper presents transient finite element calculation of the magnetic field in the anisotropic magnetic material based on the measured magnetization curves for different magnetization directions. For the verification of the calculation method some resu1ts of the calculation are compared with the measurement.	nld	North-Holland	2006	1.01	Physica	0.872	2.274
10152732	Prediction of liver metastases after gastric cancer resection with the use of learning vector quantization neural networks	Objective The aim of our study was to determine whether learning vector quantization neural networks could be used to predict liver metastases after a gastric cancer surgery. Background The prediction of tumor recurrence is invaluable for tailoring specific treatment and follow-up strategies for gastric cancer patients. At present, it is still impossible to make reliable predictions of tumor progression. The use of complex mathematical models such as neural networks has already been implemented for the study of various pathophysiological mechanisms, but to date they have never been used for predicting liver metastases after gastric cancer resection. Methods A total of 213 patients operated for gastric cancer between 1999 and 2005 were included in our study. They were stratified in a model development (140 patients) and validation group (73 patients). With the use of an auxiliary regression network, seven clinicopathological variables were selected to predict liver metastases. Results Forty-one patients developed liver metastases (19.2%). The longest follow-up was 2,754 days. Most liver metastases occurred in the first 799 days after discharge. All predictions were compared to actual recurrences with a two by two contingence table. The determined sensitivity and specificity for the development sample were 71 and 96.1%, respectively. The values for the test sample were 66.7 and 97.1%, respectively. The significance of the model was determined using various post-hoc tests, which all confirmed the effectiveness of our model. Conclusion The presented model exhibited a high negative predictive value and reasonable high sensitivity for liver metastases. To improve sensitivity, the inclusion of more patients and perhaps biological markers is still necessary.	usa	Plenum Pub. Corp.	2010	1.01	Digestive diseases and sciences	2.060	2.834
1015359	Funktionelle Kapazität und Cartilage Oligomeric Matrix Protein (COMP) im Serum bei Patienten mit Alterspolyarthritis	Objective To compare late onset with adult onset rheumatoid arthritis. Methods Fifty-eight patients with late onset rheumatoid arthritis (LORA) were compared to 117 patients with adult onset rheumatoid arthritis (AORA) with respect to clinical and functional parameters. Furthermore, in 104 patients serum cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP) was measured. Results were compared by means of ANOVA and possible influences of age, gender and clinical parameters were evaluated by Spearman rank correlation. Results Except a different distribution in gender (40% males in the LORA group) and a higher ESR, no differences could be found with respect to clinical parameters. However, a significantly higher HAQ score and significantly higher serum-COMP levels could be shown in the LORA group. HAQ scores correlated not only with disease activity parameters (C-reactive protein, disease activity score), but also with the age. Serum-COMP levels did show a correlation with the age as well, but not with disease activity. Conclusion It is concluded that the higher serum-COMP levels in late onset rheumatoid arthritis could be due to concomitant osteoarthritic processes in larger joints, which are not symptomatic. The age dependence of the HAQ score is only weak, but may be the reason why patients with LORA show a worse functional capacity compared to patients with adult onset rheumatoid arthritis.	deu	Steinkopff	2002	1.01	Zeitschrift für Rheumatologie	0.964	2.099
1015375	Ultrastructure of chloroplasts in leaves of potato plants infected by potato virus YNTN	PVYntn infection has been shown to influence the ultrastructure of chloroplasts in primary infected potato plants (Solanum tuberosum L.) of cultivar Igor grown in vivo and secondary infected plants of cultivar Desiree grown in vitro. The ultrastructure is most affected in spot necrosis, where the changes are part of apoptotic processes. In the parts of inoculated leaveswithout spot necrosis, a decrease in size of chloroplasts was observed as compared to healthy controls. From the edge to the middle of a spot necrosis, swelling of chloroplasts, loosening of thylakoid structure and changes in optical density of chloroplasts were followed. In the middle of spot necrosis the cytoplasm of the cells was dense, no vacuoles were present in the cells, cells were shrunk, the cell wall was wrinkled and the intracellular spaces were enlarged. An increase in the number of chlornplasts per cell was observed in the green parts of yellow-green leaves as compared tohealthy controls. Secondary infected plants grown in vitro had smaller chloroplasts with exvaginations, but the same volume proportion of thylakoids,starch grains and osmophilic globuli as in chloroplasts of healthy plants. In green parts of leaves of primary and secondary infected plants, PVYntn infection did not cause any visible changes in thylakoid structure, so	aut	Apud Ferdinandum & fil.	2001	1.01	Phyton	0.275	1.426
10164507	An enhanced mathematical model for investigating the dynamic loading of a slewing crane	A fatigue analysis of a structure is nowadays a common part of the design process. One of the fundamental pieces of information for ensuring the high quality of the analysis is details of the dynamic loading of the structure. This information can be provided by means of a simulation using an appropriate mathematical model. In this article, a new mathematical model of a slewing crane is presented on the basis of the experiences gained with a previously developed model. Only the slewing motion that produces the spatial oscillation of the payload is considered, as this motion has received less attention than the translation of the suspension point. The mathematical modeltakes into account the non-linear nature of the swinging motion for largeangles and the non-linearity of the power transmission to ensure sufficient accuracy. The structureæs elasticity and damping, the friction in the main bearing, and the air resistance were also taken into account. The angles of swinging of the payload and the dynamic forces acting on the steel structure of the crane during payload transport were obtained. Measurements onan actual model of a crane were carried out for the purpose of confirmation of the mathematical model. The comparison of the results was executed and a good greement between the predicted and the measured values was observed.	gbr	Mechanical Engineering Publications	2006	1.01	Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers	0.329	0.741
10168584	The visually controlled prey-capture behaviour of the European mantispid Mantispa styriaca	Mantispids (Mantispa styriaca) are predatory insects; on bright sunny days, they wait in ambush for insect prey. The prey is captured as soon as it is within reach by means of lightning-speed strikes with the powerful forelegs. The strikes can take less than 60ms. The mantispid accomplishes this almost as effectively as the larger praying mantis, which occupies a similar habitat, even though the praying mantis has apposition eyes with a high-resolution fovea, whereas the mantispid has unspecialized optical superposition eyes. Mantispa styriaca reacts to an item of prey when the latter covers a critical visual angle. The detection of prey immediately triggers adjustment reactions in the mantispid, which attempts to position the prey item in the visual field of both eyes and in the capture zone. Irrespective of the size of the prey, the capture reaction of the mantispid is always triggered if the distance to the prey falls below a certain critical value. As indicated by the analysis of individual video frames, immediately before an aimed strike, the item of prey is always positioned exactly in the centre of the binocular field of vision in the extended midsagittal plane of the mantispid's head. The strike may be triggered by the ommatidia of the left and right eyes, the lines of sight of which converge precisely on this region. The principal conclusion to be drawn is that the prey-capture behaviour of the mantispid appears to be based on a triangulation mechanism	gbr	Cambridge University Press	2000	1.01	Journal of Experimental Biology	1.989	1.778
1016945	Comparison of rotor direct pelletization (fluid bed) and extrusion/spheronization method for pellet production	Comparison of extrusion/spheronization (single screw extruder and spheronizer) as the most popular method for the production of matrix pellets and rotor direct pelletization (smooth disc) as an akternative method was made. A complex method that involves many steps and different type of equipment was compared with a single pot method. A simple formulation of ketoprofen, microcrystallyne cellulose (MCC) and lactose was used. The resultsshows similarity in physicotechnological charactreistics of produced pellets, only friability of pellets produced in rotor is significantly higher.	deu	Editio Cantor, Verl. für Medizin u. Naturwiss.	2001	1.01	Pharmazeutische Industrie	0.369	1.978
10170646	Oil-in-water high internal phase emulsions for porous monolithic polymers	Porous monolithic polymers are objects of many studies recently due to their wide applicability. Especially in separation methods use of monoliths is growing. Usually, porous monoliths are prepared by bulk polymerisation with the use of porogenic solvents. An alternative way of preparation is to polymerise the continuous phase of an emulsion. When the volume fraction of the internal phase exceeds 74%, the emulsion is called a HIPE (high internal phase emulsion), and a polymer derived from it, a PolyHIPE. PolyHIPEs of styrene, vinylbenzyl chloride and acrylate chemistry have been prepared from awater in oil emulsion system, where monomers are dissolved in the organic phase. We describe the reversed procedure, an oil in water high internal phaseemulsion, where monomers are water soluble. Porous polymers based on acrylic acid and crosslinked with methylenebisacrylamide were prepared by using a high internal phase emulsion with toluene as the oil phase. The influence of initiator and surfactant on the morphology was studied.	nld	B. Jung	2005	1.12	E-polymers	0.926	1.376
10171931	Perception of air quality and the thermal environment in offices	People's perception of the thermal environment and the quality of air in mechanically and naturally ventilated office environments is discussed. Interdisciplinary research of the indoor environment (technical and medical fields) was based on the simultaneous measurement of the thermal environment parameters, as well on as on surveying employees during their normal working activities. The survey sought to determine the health status and health problems of those surveyed in the 6 months prior to the study, as well as the current state of health and current subjective evaluation of the thermal environment and air quality. Deviations between the measured values evaluated by predicted mean vote (PMV) - predicted percent of dissatisfied (PPD) model (PMV-PDD) and the subjective evaluations of thermal environment of those surveyed were found. The subjectively stated reasons for the health problems of employees gave precedence to natural, as opposed to mechanical, ventilation, which is confirmed by the average absence from work for health reasons. An index of health was defined and analyzed for the people within a building. Significant correlations between indoor air parameters and the way people felt were found. Findings from the study indicate a significant role for the psychological factors and psychological state of the respondents when subjectively describing the indoor environment.	che	S. Karger	2007	1.01	Indoor + built environment	0.500	0.581
1017225	Wall structure of terminal latewood tracheids of healty and declining silver fir trees in the dinaric region, Slovenia	Fir trees (Abies alba Mill.) in a permanently monitored forest in the Di-naricregion in Slovenia respond to crown damages by distinctly reducing their ring widths. According to transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and UV-microspectrophotometry (UMSP) of cambium-adjacent latewood tracheids of affected trees, the secondary wall formation and lignification were completed by the middle of October. In samples taken at the same date from healthy looking silver firs, the S3 and the warty layer were not yet present in cambium-adjacent latewood tracheids. Additionally, their inner S2 showed lower lignin deposition, whereas the compound middle lamella, S1 and outer S2 were distinctly lignified as revealed by TEM and UMSP. It is assumed that these youngest tracheids of healthy trees will later undergo lignification or remain less lignified. From these observations we conclude that the cambial activity at breast height ends later in healthy silver fir trees as compared to declining trees	nld	Rijksherbarium/Hortus botanicus	2003	1.01	IAWA journal	0.667	0.865
10178838	On Euclidean algebra of hermitian operators on a quadratic Hilbert space	We solve the problem of finding the best possible constant of ultraprimeness for the special class of Euclidean algebra called algebra of hermitian operators on a quaternionic Hilbert space. More precisely, we prove that for algebra of hermitian operators, equipped with spectral norm, the best possibleconstant of ultraprimeness is 1/2.	nld	North Holland	2006	1.01	Linear Algebra and its Applications	0.585	0.832
10183195	Mrežne organizacije	Globalization and rapid technological advances require organizations to develop competitively at the world level. This poses great problems, particularly for small and medium-sized companies, which have limited resources in terms of personnel, money, development, production capacities andk nowledge. Therefore, it is very necessary for them to focus on selected areas of business activities where they are likely to develop competitiveness on the world market. Other products or services required to perform their current or anticipated business activities can be procured outside their own organization in the open market. Generally speaking, the technologically developed companies from developed countries in most cases try to find production partners with cheap manpower to perform their activities with lower added value. The organizations from technologically less-developed regions try to find the business partners for the development and transfer of new technologies into practice in their own companies. Of course, for the organizations from developed and less-developed countries and regions there can be several reasons why they try to find business partners outside their own organization. Here, we are concerned with the organizations wanting to develop by constantly innovating in all areas of their business activities. Organizations also face the need to redefine the way they set up their business activities. The concepts, offered by theory, issue from the theory of network organization, project management and industrial clusters.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2007	1.04	Strojniški vestnik	0.088	0.706
10184219	Experimental modeling of a cavitation vortex in the draft tube of a Francis turbine using artificial neural networks	Experimental modeling of a cavitation vortex structure in a Francis turbine draft tube is presented. Pressure in the draft tube and images of vortex structure were acquired simultaneously for the experiment. Non-parametric radial basis neural networks were used for the experimental modeling. Two variables were modeled: average image intensities in the selected region, and entire images of the cavitation vortex. Both variables were modeled on the basis of experimentally provided pressure data. The learning set consisted of pressure-image pairs. The modeling consisted in providing only pressure, while average image intensities and images of the cavitation vortex were modeled.	esp	International association of hydraulic engineering and research	2007	1.01	Journal of hydraulic research	0.436	0.617
10190620	Requisitely holistic ethics planning as pre-condition for enterprise ethical behaviour	Purpose - Ethical behaviour of enterprises can be attained only by planning of ethics. The purpose of this paper is to show the need for the business ethics planning, to disclose the need for the requisitely holistic planning of enterprise ethics, and to offer the concept of the requisitely holistic planning of enterprise ethics. Design/methodology/approach - The research cognitions on the importance of ethical core values, enterprise culture, ethical climate and informal as well as formal measures of business ethics are discussed and argued in application of the dialectical systems theory. The various research insights are used and applied in concluding concept of requisitely holistic planning of enterprise ethics. Findings - For successful implementation of the ethics program or plan, it is important that the program is internalized by all enterprise's stakeholders. The paper shows that credibility and ethical behaviour of an enterprise can be achieved only through requisitely holistic planning of enterprise ethics. Practical implications - This paper gives us the insights in the state of the importance and interconnection between ethical core values, culture and ethical climate as well as informal and formal measures of business ethics in relation to enterprise ethics implementation. The present research paper also has important practical implications since it shows the importance of the requisitely holistic planning of enterprise ethics in a sense of sustainable development of enterprises as well as enterprises' long-term success. Originality/value - The available literature does not provide for a similar research or concept of requisitely holistic planning of enterprise ethics. The paper also models the interconnection between core values, culture, climate and informal as well as formal measures of business ethics in order to understand the importance of enterprise ethics.	gbr	MCB university press	2010	1.01	Kybernetes	0.303	1.401
10197768	Dielectric response of antiferroelectric liquid crystals	We use a descrete phenomenological model to find theoretically the dielectric response of antiferroelectric liquid crystals in harmonic external electric fields. We find an analytical expression for the dielectric loss in terms of the eigenfrequencies of the phase and the amplitude mode. The temperature dependence of the dielectric loss is presented for the ?$SmC\ast_A$?, ?$SmC\ast_\alpha$? and ?$SmC\ast$? phases	usa	Gordon and Breach	2000	1.01	Ferroelectrics	0.547	0.796
1019784	Intrathecal synthesis of specific antibodies in patients with invasion of the central nervous system by Mycoplasma pneumoniae	Mycoplasma pneumoniae commonly causes respiratory tract infections in humans, but it may also be associated with central nervous system manifestations. The aim of the present study was to determine whether the cerebrospinal fluid taken from patients with neurologic symptoms due to Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection contains specific antibodies and whether the detection of these antibodies can be used for diagnosis. Mycoplasma pneumoniae was isolated from the cerbrospinal fluid taken from nine patients with central nervous system symptoms on admission to the hospital. In addition, Mycoplasma pneumoniae was detected cerebrospinal fluid using polymerase chain reaction in four other patients. Antibodies to Mycoplasma pneumoniae were detected using the enzyme immunosorbent assay, indirect immunoperoxidase assay and immunoblotting in cerebrospinal fluid samples from 14 of 19 patients included in the study. The indirect immunoperoxidase assay showed high titers of Mycoplasma pneumoniae immunoglobulin G[below]1 (IgG[below]1) and IgM antibodies in cerbrospinal fluidsamples of some patients with meningoencephalitis or meningitis. Titers of specific IgA, IgG[below]2 and IgG [below]3 antibodies were lower, while specific IgG[below]4 was not detectable. Cerebrospinal fluid samples with higher antibody titers also containes IgA, IgG[below]1, IgG[below]2, IgG[below]3 and IgM antibodies that recognized the P1 adhesin (170 kDa protein) of Mycoplasma pneumoniae. A comparison of antibopdy titers of concomitant serum/cerbrospinal fluid samples to Mycoplasma pneumoniae and those to measles virus by enzyme immunosorbent assay suggested the intrathecalsynthesis of IgG and IgM antibodies to Mycoplasma pneumoniae in patients with acute meningoencephalitis. Data from this study clearly reinforce previous findings that Mycoplasma pneumoniae is an etiologic agent of central nervous system infections in humans.	deu	Vieweg	2000	1.01	European journal of clinical microbiology & infectious diseases	1.337	2.225
10199048	Stability of a pixel in surface stabilized smectic-C chevron cells	We use Landau-de Gennes model to find the minimum width of a switched stripe in a surface stabilized smectic-C cell. The dependence of the critical width on temperature and on values of the nematic and smectic elastic constants is estimated analitically. The results are compared with numerically obtained critical widths. We also find characteristic times in which the wall between two switched regions is formed	usa	Gordon and Breach	2000	1.01	Ferroelectrics	0.547	0.796
10205017	A local approach to 1-homogeneous graphs	Let ?$\Gamma$? be a distance-regular graph with diameter ?$d$?. For vertices ?$x$? and ?$y$? of ?$\Gamma$? at distance ?$i$?, ?$1 \le i \le d$?, we define the sets ?$C_i = \Gamma_{i-1}(x) \cap \Gamma(y)$?, ?$A_i(x,y) = \Gamma_i(x) \cap \Gamma(y)$? and ?$B_i(x,y) = \Gamma_{i+1}(x) \cap \Gamma(y)$?. Then we say ?$\Gamma$? has CAB?$_j$? property, if the partition ?$CAB_i(x,y) = \{C_i(x,y), A_i(x,y), B_i(x,y)\}$? of the local graph of ?$y$? is equitable for each pair of vertices ?$x$? and ?$y$? of ?$\Gamma$? at distance ?$i \le j$?. We show that if ?$\Gamam$? has a CAB?$_j$? property then the parameteres of the equitable partitions ?$CAB_i(x,y)$? do not depend on the choice of vertices ?$x$? and ?$y$? at distance ?$i$? for all ?$i \le j$?. The graph ?$\Gamma$? has the CAB property if it has the CAB?$_d$? property. We show the equivalence of CAB property and 1-homogeneous property in a distance-regular graph with ?$a_1 \ne 0$?. Finally, we classify the 1-homogeneous Terwilliger graphs with ?$c_2 \ge 2$?.	usa	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2000	1.01	Designs, codes and cryptography	0.522	0.619
10214993	Yassin Abdullah Kadi & Al Barakaat International Foundation v. Council & Commission	In the joint cases Yassin Abdullah Kadi & Al Barakaat International Foundation v. Council of the European Union & Commission of the European Communities, decided on September 3, 2008, the Court of Justice of the European Communities (ECJ) overruled the Court of First Instance (CFI) and annulled the regulation of the Council of the European Union (EU Council) that froze the funds of Kadi and the Al Barakaat International Foundation, at least insofar as the regulation concerns the appellants. The ECJ ruled that it has jurisdiction to review measures adopted by the European Community giving effect to resolutions of the UN Security Council adopted against the Al Qaeda and Taliban terrorist networks. The ECJ found that the contested EU Council regulation infringed the appellants' fundamental rights under EC law, including the right to be heard, the right to effective judicial review, and the right to property. Here, Zgonec-Rozej discusses the European Court of Justice's judgment on the European Community's enforcement of UN Security Council sanctions regulations.	usa	American Society of International Law	2009	1.01	The American journal of international law	1.056	0.873
10215195	Fluid and kinetic parameters near the plasma-sheath boundary for finite Debye lengths	In a recent paper by Kuhn et al. [Phys. Plasmas 13, 013503 (2006)], it has been demonstrated that in a plasma, the polytropic coefficient is a spatially varying quantity rather than a global constant as usually assumed in fluid theory. Assuming cold ion sources and using the asymptotic two-scale approximation (in which the ratio of the Debye length over the characteristic presheath length, , is set to zero), it was found that the profile exhibits asharp peak (with values roughly between 6 and 8) at the plasma-sheath boundary. In the present paper, it is shown that in a finite approach, this sharp peak is smoothed to a regular maximum, which for increasing (e.g., decreasing plasma density) decreases and finally disappears. In any case, assumptions like =1 and/or =3, which are customarily encountered in the context of fluid approaches, are disproved. Although the present results were obtained for collisionless plasmas, it is reasonable to assume that the behavior uncovered holds qualitatively for any plasma with cold ion sources. In addition to calculating time-independent theoretical solutions by means of an analytic-numerical approach, we primarily employ particle-in-cell (PIC) computer simulations, which intrinsically represent a time-dependent approach.It is confirmed that, although extreme care is required to separate physical from numerical effects, the PIC simulation method is a highly suitable tool also for future investigations of more demanding physical scenarios assuming, e.g., warm ion sources and other more complex aspects thatcannot be treated realistically by analytic-numerical means alone. In addition, the extension from time-independent analytic-numerical calculation to time-dependent simulation permits us also to investigate the effect of collective plasma oscillations on the ion velocity distribution function (VDF). Although the ion VDFs obtained in our PIC simulations visibly differ insome details from the time-independent theoretical ones, the related ion-temperature and profiles turn out to fit their theoretical counterparts very well over significant parameter ranges. Hence, the two methods may to some extent be applied as alternative ones in future investigations on the plasma-sheath transition.	usa	American Institute of Physics	2007	1.01	Physics of plasmas	2.325	1.748
10215432	On the linear k-arboricity of cubic graphs	We prove by a computer search and an inductive construction that the edge set of a cubic graph on ?$n$? vertices can be partioned into two ?$k$?-linear forests, for ?$$k = \left\{ \begin{array}{ll} 3 & n=4 \\ 4 & n=8,10,12,16,18 \\ 5 & n=6,14 \\ 2\lfloor \frac{n}{4} - 4 \rfloor & 16 \le n \le 42 \\ 18 & n \ge 44 \end{array} \right.$$?	gbr	Gordon and Breach Science Publishers	2000	1.01	International journal of computer mathematics	0.121	0.664
1021775	The role of UV-B radiation in aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems - an experimental and functional analysis of the evolution of UV-absorbing compounds	We analysed and compared the functioning of UV B screening pigments in plants from marine, fresh water and terrestrial ecosystems, along the evolutionary lime of cyanobacteria, unicellular algae, primitive multicellular algae, charophycean algae, lichens, mosses and higher plants, including amphibious macrophytes. Lichens were also included in the study. We were interested in the following key aspectsÈ (a) does thd water column function effectively as an æexternal UV B filteræŽè (b) do aquatic plants need less `internal UV B screeningæ than terrestrial plantsŽè (c) what role does UV screening play in protecting the various plant groups from UV B damage, such as the formation ofthymine dimersŽè and (d) since early land æplantsæ (such as the predecessorsof present-day cyanobacteria, lichens and mosses) experienced higher UV B fluxes than higher plants, which evolved later, are primitive aquatic and land organisms (cyanobacteria, algae, lichens, mosses) better adapted to present-day levels of UV B than higher plantsŽ Furthermore, polychromatic action spectra for the induction of UV screening pigments of aquatic organisms have been determined. This is relevant for translating æphysicalæ radiation measurements of solar UV B into æbiologicalæ and æecologicalæ effects. From the action spectra, radiation amplification factors(RAFs) have been calculated. These action spectra allow us to determineany mitigating or antagonistic effects in the ecosystems and therefore qualify the damage prediction for the ecosystems under study. We summarize and discuss the main results based on three years of research of four European research groups. (Abstract truncated at 2000 characters)	usa	Elsevier Sequoia	2002	1.01	Journal of photochemistry and photobiology. B, Biology	1.573	2.76
1022088	Unravelling the genetic diversity of ruminal bacteria belonging to the CFB phylum	Molecular biology approaches were employed to examine the genetic diversity ofbacteria from Cytophaga/Flexibacter/Bacteroides (CFB) phylum in the rumen ofcattle. By this means we were able to identify cultured strains that represent some of the larger CFB clusters previously identified only by PCR amplification and sequencing. Complete 16S rDNA sequences were obtained for 16previously isolated rumen strains, including the type strains of Prevotella ruminicola, P. bryantii, P. brevis and P. albensis to represent a wide range of diversity.Phylogenetic analysis of cultured strains revealed the existence of three clusters of ruminal CFB: (i) a cluster of Prevotella strains which have been found only in the rumen, including the two type strains, P. brevis GA33T and P. ruminicola 23T' (ii) Prevotella spp. that cluster with prevotellas from other ecological niches such as the oral cavity and which include the type strains, P. bryantii B14T and P. albensis M384T' (iii) two Bacteroides spp. strains clustering with B. forsythus of oral origin. In orderto establish wheather the cultivated isolates cover the whole range of ruminal CFB genetic diversity, 16S rRNA gene sequences were amplified and cloned from DNA extracted from the same rumen samples (one cow in Slovenia, one in Scotland and three in Japan). Sequencing and phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA genes confirmed the exstence of two superclusters of ruminal Prevotella, one exclusively ruminal and the other including non-ruminal species. In the case of ruminal Bacteroides spp., however, phylogenetic analysis revealed the existence of three new superclusters, one of which has as yet no cultivable counterpart. Interestingly, these Bacteroides clusters were represented almost exclusively by clone libraries from the Japanese cattle and only three sequences were from European cattle. This study agrees with previous analyses in showing that rumen Prevotella/Bacteroides strains exhibit a remarkable degree of genetic diversity and suggests that different strain groupings may differ greatly in their recovery by cultural methods. Themost important conclusion, however, is that cultured strains can be identified that represent some of the larger clusters previously identified only by PCR amplification and sequencing.	nld	Elsevier	2000	1.01	FEMS microbiology, ecology	2.439	2.225
10223638	Low-speed sensorless control of induction machine	This paper deals with the low speed tracking control improvement of a Linear Synchronous Reluctance Motor (LSRM) drive. An extended nonlinear dynamic LSRM model with magnetic saturation included is used in the advanced non-linear feedback linearization control design and practical realization, in order to improve tracking performances at very low speeds of motion. Iron core saturation is included in the extended model with the experimentally determined flux linkages given as functions of the direct, and quadrature axescurrents. Experimental results show that the proposed feedback linearizing tracking control with the included magnetic saturation behaves considerably better than the one without saturation. It introduces smaller position and speed errors and better drive stiffness.	usa	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2006	1.01	IEEE transactions on industrial electronics	0.590	0.942
10232153	Nonexistence of some antipodal distance-regular graphs of diameter four	We find an inequality involving the eigenvalue of a regular graph; equality holds if and only if the graph is strongly regular. We apply this inequality to the first subconstituents of a distance-regular graph and obtain a simple proof of the fundamental bound for distance-regular graphs, discovered by Jurišiæ, Koolen and Terwilliger. Using this we show that for distance-regular graphs with certain intersection arrays, the first subconstituent graphs are strongly regular. From these results we prove the nonexistence of distance-regular graphs associated to 20 feasible intersection arrays from the book Distance-regular graphs by Brouwer, Cohen and Neumaier.	gbr	Academic Press	2000	1.01	European journal of combinatorics	0.267	0.495
10236699	Investigation of a cavitation bubble between a rigid boundary and a free surface	When a high-intensity laser pulse is focused into a liquid the energy is converted into mechanical energy via an optodynamic process. The conversion starts with plasma formation: this is followed by shock-wave propagation and the expansion of a cavitation bubble. A cavitation bubble developed near boundaries results in an asymmetrical collapse, with the generation of a liquid jet during the bubble's rebound. In the case of a free surface this liquid jet is directed away from the surface and the oscillation times are prolonged. On the other hand, in the case of a rigid boundary, the liquid jet is directed toward the boundary and the oscillation times are shortened. We present measurements of a cavitation bubble oscillating between a free surfaceand a rigid boundary using deflections of a laser beam as the optical probe. Shadow photography was used simultaneously as a comparison during the experiments. With the beam-deflection probe we also measured the shortening ofthe oscillation times near a free surface as well as the prolongation of oscillation times near a rigid boundary. In order to explain this shortening of the cavitation-bubble oscillation times near a free surface, Rayleighæs model was extended and compared with our experimental results.	usa	American Institute of Physics.	2007	1.01	Journal of applied physics	2.171	1.839
1024003420	An application of statistical chain theories on thermodynamic properties of hydrocarbon refrigerants	The paper features the mathematical modeling to compute the equilibrium thermodynamic properties in the fluid phase of pure hydrocarbons with the aid of classical thermodynamics and statistical associating chain theories. In the present paper, we calculated thermodynamic properties for methane, ethane, n-butane and propane as the examples of hydocarbon substances. To calculate the thermodynamic properties of real fluid the models on the basis of Lennard-Jones intermolecular potential and statistical associating fluid theory were applied. We developed expressions for semi-theoretical Liu-Li-Lu model (LLL) and purely analytical Tang-Lu (TL) model obtained on the basis of salvation Orestein-Zernike EOS. To calculate the thermodynamic properties of real fluid with the aid of classical thermodynamics, we used Miyamoto-Watanabe(MW) equations developed in terms of Helmhotz energy. We developed the mathematical model for the calculation of all the thermodynamic functions of state for pure hydrocarbons. The analytical results obtained by statistical thermodynamics are compared with the MW model and show relatively good agreement.	nld	Elsevier	2004	1.01	Journal of molecular liquids	1.057	1.912
1024004700	Integration framework to support cooperation in product development process	Virtual Prototypes become increasingly important and useful for engineers, since they provide the capability to evaluate mechanical designs under ""real-world"" conditions during different phases of their development. The aim of presented research work is to create and implement a computer framework to handle viewing and examination of virtual prototypes over the Web, to manipulate appearances of parts, enable exchanging parts or sub-assemblies simultaneously for evaluation, involving their functional behaviour. The presented framework finally enables the propagation of changes back to modelling system, avoiding repetition of virtual model preparation. The presented model enables cooperation of a broad set of participants in production process regardless of their computer experience.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
1024010076	Vibration of beams and rotating shafts under thermal effects	Temperature variations can significantly change the dynamic characteristics of structures. In the presented paper we have studied the clamped isotropic rotor under thermal effects. We have studied aluminium and copper beam. Because the expansion is restrained by the clamping, the beam undergoes internal stresses, which induce changes in dynamic characteristics. We have also expanded and developed Marques and Inman model as well as Bahzad and Bastami model. We have taken into account the compound influence of thermal force, axial force in rotating shaft and gyroscopic effect. The behavior of rotating shaft is studied in the temperature range of 250-700 K. The influence of temperature-dependent material properties was considered primarily with respect to temperature variations. The presented research work demonstrates a very good agreement between experimental data and results from our vibrational model. On the basis of the proposed analytical model it is possible to determine the vibrational characteristics in very wide range of temperatures. The reported paper is the first one in scientific literature to consider collectively the combined influence of temperature, gyroscopic effects and rotor speeds on shaft and beam vibrations.	ltu	Public Institution Vibromechanika.	2009	1.01	Journal of Vibroengineering	0.357	0.969
1024017244	Web-based environment for mechanism simulation integrated with CAD system	The present work describes the architecture of a new approach addressing the sharing of virtual prototypes over the Web with standard programming tools. The usage of standard Web-based technologies leads to easier, effective and more general applications suitable for small and medium size companies with limited resources in that field of research. Designers not only exchange just geometry data, but also more information about design knowledge and design solutions, and collaboration is performed on remote locations. In this work the framework is proposed to model a mechanical product focusing on behavioural criteria. In order to avoid time-consuming virtual model preparation, product variety is defined in single configuration file. The configuration file is covering all the variations, with formalisation of the assembly structure and linking the parts and attributes in uniform way. It enables visualisation of the models from different modelling systems and allows interactive changes and evaluation of the virtual prototype.	usa	Springer	2010	1.01	Engineering with computers	0.625	0.909
1024027740	Canada's program on nuclear hydrogen production and the thermochemical Cu-Cl cycle	This paper presents an overview of the status of Canada's program on nuclear hydrogen production and the thermochemical copper-chlorine (Cu-Cl) cycle. Enabling technologies for the Cu-Cl cycle are being developed by a Canadian consortium, as part of the Generation IV International Forum (GIF) for hydrogen production with the next generation of nuclear reactors. Particular emphasis in this paper is given to hydrogen production with Canada's Super-Critical Water Reactor, SCWR. Recent advances towards an integrated lab-scale Cu-Cl cycle are discussed, including experimentation, modeling, simulation, advanced materials, thermochemistry, safety, reliability and economics. In addition, electrolysis during off-peak hours, and the processes of integrating hydrogen plants with Canada's nuclear plants are presented.	gbr	Pergamon Press.	2010	1.01	International journal of hydrogen energy	4.053	2.031
1024037468	Phase diagrams for an evolutionary prisoner's dilemma game on two-dimensional lattices	The effects of payoffs and noise on the maintenance of cooperative behavior are studied in an evolutionary prisonerâ Ts dilemma game with players located on the sites of different two-dimensional lattices. This system exhibits a phase transition from a mixed state of cooperators and defectors to a homogeneous one where only the defectors remain alive. Using Monte Carlo simulations and the generalized mean-field approximations we have determined the phase boundaries (critical points) separating the two phases on the plane of the temperature (noise) and temptation to choose defection. In the zero temperature limit the cooperation can be sustained only for those connectivity structures where three-site clique percolation occurs.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2005	1.01	Physical review	2.418	1.281
1024037724	Cooperation in the noisy case	We have studied an evolutionary prisoner's dilemma game with players located on two types of random regular graphs with a degree of 4. The analysis is focused on the effects of payoffs and noise (temperature) on the maintenance of cooperation. When varying the noise level and/or the highest payoff, the system exhibits a second-order phase transition from a mixed state of cooperators and defectors to an absorbing state where only defectors remain alive. For the random regular graph (and Bethe lattice) the behavior of the system is similar to those found previously on the square lattice with nearest neighbor interactions, although the measure of cooperation is enhanced by the absence of loops in the connectivity structure. For low noise the optimal connectivity structure is built up from randomly connected triangles.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2006	1.01	Physical review	2.438	1.237
1024037980	Evolutionary prisoner's dilemma game on Newman-Watts networks	Maintenance of cooperation was studied for a two-strategy evolutionary prisoner's dilemma game where the players are located on a one-dimensional chain and their payoff comes from games with the nearest- and next-nearest-neighbor interactions. The applied host geometry makes it possible to study the impacts of two conflicting topological features. The evolutionary rule involves some noise affecting the strategy adoptions between the interacting players. Using Monte Carlo simulations and the extended versions of dynamical mean-field theory we determined the phase diagram as a function of noise level and a payoff parameter. The peculiar feature of the diagram is changed significantly when the connectivity structure is extended by extra links as suggested by Newman and Watts.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2008	1.01	Physical review	2.508	1.582
1024038236	Phase transitions for rock-scissors-paper game on different networks	Monte Carlo simulations and dynamical mean-field approximations are performed to study the phase transitions in the rock-scissors-paper game on different host networks. These graphs are originated from lattices by introducing quenched and annealed randomness simultaneously. In the resulting phase diagrams three different stationary states are identified for all structures. The comparison of results on different networks suggests that the value of the clustering coefficient plays an irrelevant role in the emergence of a global oscillating phase. The critical behavior of phase transitions seems to be universal and can be described by the same exponents.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2004	1.01	Physical review	2.352	1.154
1024038492	Cooperation in spatial prisoner's dilemma with two types of players for increasing number of neighbors	We study a spatial two-strategy (cooperation and defection) prisoner's dilemma game with two types (A and B) of players located on the sites of a square lattice. The evolution of strategy distribution is governed by iterated strategy adoption from a randomly selected neighbor with a probability depending on the payoff difference and also on the type of the neighbor. The strategy adoption probability is reduced by a prefactor (w<1) from the players of type B. We consider the competition between two opposite effects when increasing the number of neighbors (k=4, 8, and 24). Within a range of the portion of influential players (type A) the inhomogeneous activity in strategy transfer yields a relevant increase (dependent on w) in the density of cooperators. The noise dependence of this phenomenon is also discussed by evaluating phase diagrams.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2009	1.01	Physical review	2.400	1.468
1024038748	Phase transitions in the kinetic Ising model with competing dynamics	We study the nonequilibrium phase diagram and critical properties of a two-dimensional kinetic Ising model with competing Glauber and Kawasaki dynamics suggested by Tomé and de Oliveira [Phys. Rev. A 40, 6643 (1989)]. The role of the Kawasaki dynamics, chosen with probability 1-p, is to simulate a permanent energy flux into the system. The theoretical prediction for the phase diagram is improved significantly by using four- and six-point dynamical mean-field approximations. Monte Carlo simulations support that the ferromagnetic-paramagnetic phase transition changes from second to first order for sufficiently small p. The antiferromagnetic phase is found to be stable for a nonzero value of p even at T=0.	usa	American Physical Society	2000	1.01	Physical review	2.142	1.005
1024040028	Selection of noise level in strategy adoption for spatial social dilemmas	We studied spatial Prisoner's Dilemma and Stag Hunt games where both the strategy distribution and the players' individual noise level could evolve to reach higher individual payoff. Players are located on the sites of different two-dimensional lattices and gain their payoff from games with their neighbors by choosing unconditional cooperation or defection. The way of strategy adoption can be characterized by a single K (temperaturelike) parameter describing how strongly adoptions depend on the payoff difference. If we start the system from a random strategy distribution with many different player specific K parameters, the simultaneous evolution of strategies and K parameters drives the system to a final stationary state where only one K value remains. In the coexistence phase of cooperator and defector strategies the surviving K parameter is in good agreement with the noise level that ensures the highest cooperation level if uniform K is supposed for all players. In this paper we give a thorough overview about the properties of this evolutionary process.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2009	1.01	Physical review	2.400	1.468
1024040284	Three-state Potts model in combination with the rock-scissors-paper game	We study a three-state Potts model extended by allowing cyclic dominance between the states as exemplified in the rock-scissors-paper game. Monte Carlo simulations are performed on a square lattice while varying the temperature and the strength of cyclic dominance. It is shown that the critical phase transition from the disordered state to the ordered one is destroyed by the cyclic dominance, which yields a self-organizing pattern even at low temperatures. The differences and similarities are discussed between the present model and half-filled, driven lattice gases with repulsive interaction.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2005	1.01	Physical review	2.418	1.281
1024040796	Spreading of families in cyclic predator-prey models	We study the spreading of families in two-dimensional multispecies predator-prey systems, in which species cyclically dominate each other. In each time step randomly chosen individuals invade one of the nearest sites of the square lattice eliminating their prey. Initially all individuals get a family name which will be carried on by their descendants. Monte Carlo simulations show that the systems with several species (N=3,4,5) are asymptotically approaching the behavior of the voter model, i.e., the survival probability of families, the mean size of families, and the mean-square distance of descendants from their ancestor exhibits the same scaling behavior. The scaling behavior of the survival probability of families has a logarithmic correction. In case of the voter model this correction depends on the number of species, while cyclic predator-prey models behave like the voter model with infinite species. It is found that changing the rates of invasions does not change this asymptotic behavior. As an application a three-species system with a fourth-species intruder is also discussed.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2004	1.01	Physical review	2.352	1.154
1024041052	Dynamical mean-field approximation for a pair contact process with a particle source	The one-dimensional pair contact process with a particle source is studied by using dynamical cluster mean-field approximations with sites up to n=12. The results obtained for different levels of approximation become convergent especially for n>-6 and allow us to derive reliable extrapolations to the limit n>[infinity]. At the zero source limit, the critical point exhibits a discontinuity whose magnitude vanishes with 1/n. Coherent anomaly analysis of the data supports the conclusion that the vanishing of the order parameter and the density of isolated particles have the same critical behavior. In contrast to an earlier prediction, the present approximation does not support the existence of critical behavior in the inactive phase where the frozen density of isolated particles depends on the initial state.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2002	1.01	Physical review	2.397	1.073
1024041564	Segregation process and phase transition in cyclic predator-prey models with an even number of species	We study a spatial cyclic predator-prey model with an even number of species (for n=4, 6, and 8) that allows the formation of two defensive alliances consisting of the even and odd label species. The species are distributed on the sites of a square lattice. The evolution of spatial distribution is governed by iteration of two elementary processes on neighboring sites chosen randomly: if the sites are occupied by a predator-prey pair then the predator invades the prey's site; otherwise the species exchange their sites with a probability X. For low X values, a self-organizing pattern is maintained by cyclic invasions. If X exceeds a threshold value, then two types of domain grow up that are formed by the odd and even label species, respectively. Monte Carlo simulations indicate the blocking of this segregation process within a range of X for n=8.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2007	1.01	Physical review	2.483	1.444
1024041820	Vertex dynamics during domain growth in three-state models	Topological aspects of interfaces are studied by comparing quantitatively the evolving three-color patterns in three different models, such as the three-state voter, Potts, and extended voter models. The statistical analysis of some geometrical features allows us to explore the role of different elementary processes during distinct coarsening phenomena in the above models.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2004	1.01	Physical review	2.352	1.154
1024042332	Self-organizing patterns maintained by competing associations in a six-species predator-prey model	Formation and competition of associations are studied in a six-species ecological model where each species has two predators and two prey. Each site of a square lattice is occupied by an individual belonging to one of the six species. The evolution of the spatial distribution of species is governed by iterated invasions between the neighboring predator-prey pairs with species specific rates and by site exchange between the neutral pairs with a probability X. This dynamical rule yields the formation of five associations composed of two or three species with proper spatiotemporal patterns. For large X a cyclic dominance can occur between the three two-species associations whereas one of the two three-species associations prevails in the whole system for low values of X in the final state. Within an intermediate range of X all the five associations coexist due to the fact that cyclic invasions between the two-species associations reduce their resistance temporarily against the invasion of three-species associations.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2008	1.01	Physical review	2.508	1.582
1024042588	Cluster mean-field study of the parity-conserving phase transition	The phase transition of the branching and annihilating random walk with even off spring is studied by N-cluster mean-field approximations on one-dimensional lattices. By allowing the system to reach zero branching rate a phase transition can be seen for any N?12. Coherent anomaly extrapolations applied for the series of approximations results in ??=1.85(3) and ß=0.96(2).	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2005	1.01	Physical review	2.418	1.281
1024042844	Phase transitions induced by variation of invasion rates in spatial cyclic predator-prey models with four or six species	Cyclic predator-prey models with four or six species are studied on a square lattice when the invasion rates are varied. It is found that the cyclic invasions maintain a self-organizing pattern as long as the deviation of the invasion rate(s) from a uniform value does not exceed a threshold value. For larger deviations, the system exhibits a continuous phase transition into a frozen distribution of odd (or even) label species.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2008	1.01	Physical review	2.508	1.582
1024043100	Ordering in spatial evolutionary games for pairwise collective strategy updates	Evolutionary 2*2 games are studied with players located on a square lattice. During the evolution the randomly chosen neighboring players try to maximize their collective income by adopting a random strategy pair with a probability dependent on the difference of their summed payoffs between the final and initial states assuming quenched strategies in their neighborhood. In the case of the anticoordination game this system behaves like an antiferromagnetic kinetic Ising model. Within a wide region of social dilemmas this dynamical rule supports the formation of similar spatial arrangement of the cooperators and defectors ensuring the optimum total payoff if the temptation to choose defection exceeds a threshold value dependent on the sucker's payoff. The comparison of the results with those achieved for pairwise imitation and myopic strategy updates has indicated the relevant advantage of pairwise collective strategy update in the maintenance of cooperation.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2010	1.01	Physical review	2.352	1.29
1024043356	Dynamically generated cyclic dominance in spatial prisoner's dilemma games	We have studied the impact of time-dependent learning capacities of players in the framework of spatial prisoneræs dilemma game. In our model, this capacity of players may decrease or increase in time after strategy adoption according to a steplike function. We investigated both possibilities separately and observed significantly different mechanisms that form the stationary pattern of the system. The time decreasing learning activity helps cooperator domains to recover the possible intrude of defectors hence supports cooperation. In the other case the temporary restrained learning activity generates a cyclic dominance between defector and cooperator strategies, which helps to maintain the diversity of strategies via propagating waves. The results are robust and remain valid by changing payoff values, interaction graphs or functions characterizing time dependence of learning activity. Our observations suggest that dynamically generated mechanisms may offer alternative ways to keep cooperators alive even at very larger temptation to defect.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2010	1.01	Physical review	2.352	1.29
1024043612	Cooperation enhanced by inhomogeneous activity of teaching for evolutionary Prisoner's Dilemma games	Evolutionary Prisoner's Dilemma games with quenched inhomogeneities in the spatial dynamical rules are considered. The players following one of the two pure strategies (cooperation or defection) are distributed on a two-dimensional lattice. The rate of strategy adoption from randomly chosen neighbors is controlled by the payoff difference and a two-value pre-factor w characterizing the players whom the strategy learned from. The reduced teaching activity of players is distributed randomly with concentrations ? at the beginning and fixed further on. Numerical and analytical calculations are performed to study the concentration of cooperators as a function of w and ? for different noise levels and connectivity structures. Significant increase of cooperation is found within a wide range of parameters for this dynamics. The results highlight the importance of asymmetry characterizing the exchange of master-follower role during the strategy adoptions.	fra	Les Ed. de physique	2007	1.01	Europhysics letters	2.206	2.515
1024043868	Selection of dynamical rules in spatial Prisoner's Dilemma games	We study co-evolutionary Prisoner's Dilemma games where each player can imitate both the strategy and imitation rule from a randomly chosen neighbor with a probability dependent on the payoff difference when the player's income is collected from games with the neighbors. The players, located on the sites of a two-dimensional lattice, follow unconditional cooperation or defection and use individual strategy adoption rule described by a parameter. If the system is started from a random initial state then the present co-evolutionary rule drives the system towards a state where only one evolutionary rule remains alive even in the coexistence of cooperative and defective behaviors. The final rule is related to the optimum providing the highest level of cooperation and affected by the topology of the connectivity structure.	fra	Les Ed. de physique	2009	1.01	Europhysics letters	2.893	2.572
1024044124	Three-state cyclic voter model extended with Potts energy	The cyclically dominated voter model on a square is extended by taking into consideration the variation of Potts energy during the nearest neighbor invasions. We have investigated the effect of surface tension on the self-organizing patterns maintained by the cyclic invasions. A geometrical analysis is also developed to study the three-color patterns. These investigations clearly indicate that in the Ævoter modelÆ limit the pattern evolution is governed by the loop creation due to the overhanging during the interfacial roughening. Conversely, in the presence of surface tension the evolution is governed by spiral formation whose geometrical parameters depend on the strength of cyclic dominance.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2002	1.01	Physical review	2.397	1.073
1024044380	Influence of extended dynamics on phase transitions in a driven lattice gas	Monte Carlo simulations and dynamical mean-field approximations are performed to study the phase transition in a driven lattice gas with nearest-neighbor exclusion on a square lattice. A slight extension of the microscopic dynamics with allowing the next-nearest-neighbor hops results in dramatic changes. Instead of the phase separation into high- and low-density regions in the stationary state the system exhibits a continuous transition belonging to the Ising universality class for any driving. The relevant features of the phase diagram are reproduced by an improved mean-field analysis.	usa	Published by the American Physical Society through the American Institute of Physics	2002	1.01	Physical review	2.397	1.073
1024044636	Rock-scissors-paper game on regular small-world networks	The spatial rock-scissors-paper game (or cyclic Lotka-Volterra system) is extended to study how the spatiotemporal patterns are affected by the rewired host lattice providing uniform number of neighbours (degree) at each site. On the square lattice this system exhibits a self-organizing pattern with equal concentration of the competing strategies (species). If the quenched background is constructed by substituting random links for the nearest-neighbour bonds of a square lattice then a limit cycle occurs when the portion of random links exceeds a threshold value. This transition can also be observed if the standard link is replaced temporarily by a random one with a probability P at each step of iteration. Above a second threshold value of P the amplitude of global oscillation increases with time and finally the system reaches one of the homogeneous (absorbing) states. In this case the results of Monte Carlo simulations are compared with the predictions of the dynamical cluster technique evaluating all the configuration probabilities on one-, two-, four- and six-site clusters.	gbr	Institute of Physics	2004	1.01	Journal of physics	1.504	1.154
1024047964	Analysis of coreless stator axial flux permanent magnet synchronous generator characteristics by using equivalent circuit	This paper presents calculation procedure to predict the characteristics in coreless stator axial flux permanent magnet synchronous generators with surface mounted permanent magnets and double external rotor by using equivalent circuit. The input data for the calculation procedure are obtained from the measurements. The characteristics obtained by using measurements and equivalent circuit are in good agreement with analytically calculated results.	pol	Wydawnictwo Czasopism i Ksiêa¿ek Technicznych ""Sigma""	2011	1.01	Przeglêad Elektrotechniczny	0.244	1.327
1024048220	Nanofluid and ferrofluid slip flow in rectangular and circular microchannels and minichannels	This paper has developed a formulation of fluid motion and entropy production in microchannels. We have developed the formulations for pressure driven flow, flow under electric forces and flow under ferromagnetic forces. Friction, thermal and electromagnetic irreversibilities have significance in energy efficiency of microfluid systems. The results indicate that entropy and the Second Law have practical significance in electrokinetic liquid transport through microchannels.	pol	Wydawnictwo Czasopism i Ksiêa¿ek Technicznych ""Sigma""	2011	1.01	Przeglêad Elektrotechniczny	0.244	1.327
1024053332	Hamilton paths and cycles in vertex-transitive graphs of order 6p	It is shown that every connected vertex-transitive graph of order ?$6p$?, where ?$p$? is a prime, contains a Hamilton path. Moreover, it is shown that, except for the truncation of the Petersen graph, every connected vertex-transitive graph of order ?$6p$? which is not genuinely imprimitive contains a Hamilton cycle.	nld	North-Holland	2009	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.548	0.761
1024054100	On Hamiltonicity of circulant digraphs of outdegree three	This paper deals with Hamiltonicity of connected loopless circulant digraphs of outdegree three with connection set of the form ?$\{a,ka,c\}$?, where ?$k$? is an integer. In particular, we prove that if ?$k=-1$? or ?$k=2$? such a circulant digraph is Hamiltonian if and only if it is not isomorphic to the circulant digraph on 12 vertices with connection set ?$\{3,6,4\}$?.	nld	North-Holland	2009	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.548	0.761
1024057180	Clean hydrogen production with the Cu-Cl cycle - Progress of international consortium	This second of two companion papers presents the latest advances of an international team on the thermochemical copper-chlorine (Cu-Cl) cycle of hydrogen production. It specifically focuses on simulations, thermochemical data, advanced materials, safety, reliability and economics of the Cu-Cl cycle. Aspen Plus simulations of various system configurations are performed to improve the cycle efficiency. In addition, simulations based on exergo-economic and exergy-cost-energy-mass (EXCEM) methods for system design are presented. Modeling of the linkage between nuclear and hydrogen plants demonstrates how the Cu-Cl cycle would be integrated with an SCWR (Super Critical Water Reactor; Canada's Generation IV reactor). Chemical potentials, solubilities, formation of Cu(I) and Cu(II) complexes and properties of Cu2OCl2, Cu(I) and Cu(II) chloride species are reported. In addition, the development of new advanced materials with improved corrosion resistance is presented. In particular, the performance of new anode electrode structures and thermal spray coatings is presented. This companion set of two papers presents new advances in a range of key enabling technologies for the thermochemical copper-chlorine cycle.	gbr	Pergamon Press.	2011	1.01	International journal of hydrogen energy	4.054	2.489
1024057436	Clean hydrogen production with the Cu-Cl cycle - Progress of international consortium	This second of two companion papers presents the latest advances of an international team on the thermochemical copper-chlorine (Cu-Cl) cycle of hydrogen production. It specifically focuses on simulations, thermochemical data, advanced materials, safety, reliability and economics of the Cu-Cl cycle. Aspen Plus simulations of various system configurations are performed to improve the cycle efficiency. In addition, simulations based on exergo-economic and exergy-cost-energy-mass (EXCEM) methods for system design are presented. Modeling of the linkage between nuclear and hydrogen plants demonstrates how the Cu-Cl cycle would be integrated with an SCWR (Super Critical Water Reactor; Canada's Generation IV reactor). Chemical potentials, solubilities, formation of Cu(I) and Cu(II) complexes and properties of Cu2OCl2, Cu(I) and Cu(II) chloride species are reported. In addition, the development of new advanced materials with improved corrosion resistance is presented. In particular, the performance of new anode electrode structures and thermal spray coatings is presented. This companion set of two papers presents new advances in a range of key enabling technologies for the thermochemical copper-chlorine cycle.	gbr	Pergamon Press.	2011	1.01	International journal of hydrogen energy	4.054	2.489
1024066396	The analysis of the impact of particles on cavitation flow development	The purpose of this paper is to present an analysis of the impact of solid particles on the development of cavitation flow conditions around a hydrofoil. Experimental studies were conducted in a cavitation tunnel with different mixtures of particles and water. The effect of the particles on the development of cavitation flows was modeled by using an additional phase particle dispersion model (Euler-Euler). Numerical modeling was performed using the CFD software. The impact on the cavity model with the parametric analysis of the entry conditions of particles in the calculation domain was investigated, with a focus on the solid shear viscosity. Another purpose of this research was to present the possibility of modeling the development of the vapor phase in the commercial CFD software package, while taking into account the impact of particles. This paper presents the results of the experimental measurements and their comparison with numerical simulations.	usa	American Society of Mechanical Engineers	2011	1.01	Journal of fluids engineering	0.747	1.059
1024066908	Environmental values measuring cell for assessment of wind and solar energy resources	A precise understanding of the area's wind resource is the cornerstone of any wind project. While some of the best resources are found on agricultural lands, the power of the wind varies greatly from one location to another. Professional wind measurement and its accuracy and reliability are thus very important in predicting economic viability before starting a wind farm. Therefore, for the prospective development of a wind turbine, it is important to consider the wind resources, how regularly the wind blows, the direction ofthe wind and the variations in wind speed.	pol	Wydawnictwo Czasopism i Ksiêa¿ek Technicznych ""Sigma""	2011	1.01	Przeglêad Elektrotechniczny	0.244	1.327
1024067164	Moisture measurement in solid samples using Raman spectroscopy	In this paper, design and experimental testing of a device for measuring moisture in the near infrared region and exploring opportunities of reflective method of measuring the solid samples, are presented. Methods with the most practical real-time usage is Raman spectroscopy, technique based on the effect that frequencies of photons in monochromatic light change after interaction with the sample induced by laser in the visible spectrum. This shift in frequency provides information about transitions in molecules, what is used in study of solids characteristics.	pol	Wydawnictwo Czasopism i Ksiêa¿ek Technicznych ""Sigma""	2011	1.01	Przeglêad Elektrotechniczny	0.244	1.327
1024067420	Magnetically nonlinear dynamic model of a series wound DC motor	This paper deals with mathematical modeling of a series wound DC motor, where magnetic nonlinearities play a big role. Three different models are presented: magnetically linear dynamic model and two different types of magnetically nonlinear dynamic models. Magnetically nonlinearities of iron core are taking into account with definitions of static and dynamic inductances. Furthermore, the parameters determination and flux-linkage characteristics measurements which were performed on a tested motor are explained. Each model has been evaluated on the basis of results obtained by simulations and results of measurements conducted on a tested motor.	pol	Wydawnictwo Czasopism i Ksiêa¿ek Technicznych ""Sigma""	2011	1.01	Przeglêad Elektrotechniczny	0.244	1.327
1024067932	Experimental analysis of the impact of particles on the cavitating flow	The purpose of this paper is to present an analysis of the impact of solid particles on the development of cavitating flow conditions around a hydrofoil. Experimental studies have been conducted in a cavitation tunnel with three different mixtures of particles and water. We used a particle-like properties, such as are found in river water, and with increasing mass concentration. We performed measurements of torque and the relative noise in the hydrofoil. The point in the formation of vapour phase on the hydrofoil and the pronounced frequency effect were determined by measuring the relative noise. Based on the analysis the results show that the particles increase the intensity and extent of cavitation.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2012	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.398	1.059
1024070236	Variations of permanent magnets dimensions in axial flux permanent magnet synchronous machine	This paper presents the variations of permanent magnets (PMs) dimensions in axial flux permanent magnet synchronous machine (AFPMSM). By the variation of PMs dimensions the influences on the machine characteristics are researched by using analytical method via magnetic vector potential. The results obtained by analytical method are confirmed by using finite element method (FEM) and measurements.	pol	Wydawnictwo Czasopism i Ksiêa¿ek Technicznych ""Sigma""	2011	1.01	Przeglêad Elektrotechniczny	0.244	1.327
1024070484	Prevalence of abdominal obesity in Slovene primary health care attendees - the IDEA study	Background: Obesity is well recognized as a major risk factor for coronary heart disease, vascular mortality, diabetes and metabolic syndrome. However, evidence is accumulating that abdominal obesity is a stronger predictor for these disorders than generalized obesity, defined by elevated body mass index.Reliable estimates of the worldwide prevalence of abdominal obesity are needed to quantify the associated health risk. Methods: The International Day for the Evaluation of Abdominal Obesity (IDEA) study is a large, international, epidemiological cross-sectional study designed to provide reliable data on the distribution of waist circumference according to region, gender, age and socio-economic background. Any non-pregnant patient aged 18-80years who consulted one of the randomly selected primary care physicians on two pre-defined half days was eligible to participate in the study. Results: In Slovenia, 1536 patients were enrolled in the study. The prevalenceof abdominal obesity in Slovene primary health care (PHC) attendees was 33.5% for men and 50.0% for women. The prevalence of abdominal obesity is increasing with age and declining with higher level of education. Abdominal obesity is highly prevalent among unemployed women and former smokers. The prevalence of abdominal obesity is higher among patients with cardiovascular risk factors, including hypertension and type 2 diabetes, and among post-menopausal women, especially among those receiving no hormone replacementtherapy. Conclusion: Waist circumference is easy to measure and mayserve as a single measure to assess the need for weight loss.	svn	Inštitut za varovanje zdravja Republike Slovenije	2009	1.01	Zdravstveno varstvo	0.452	1.491
1024072020	Hamiltonian cycles in cubic Cayley graphs	It was proved by Glover and Marušiè (J. Eur. Math. Soc. 9:775-787, 2007), that cubic Cayley graphs arising from groups ?$G = \langle a, x \vert a^2 = x^s= (ax)^3 = 1, \dots \rangle$? having a ?$(2,s,3)$?-presentation, that is, from groups generated by an involution ?$a$? and an element ?$x$? of order ?$s$? such that their product ?$ax$? has order 3, have a Hamiltonian cycle when ?$|G|$? (and thus also ?$s$?) is congruent to 2 modulo 4, and have a Hamiltonian path when ?$|G|$? is congruent to 0 modulo 4. In this article the existence of a Hamiltonian cycle is proved when apart from ?$|G|$? also ?$s$? is congruent to 0 modulo 4, thus leaving ?$|G|$? congruent to 0 modulo 4 with ?$s$? either odd or congruent to 2 modulo 4 as the only remaining cases to be dealt with in order to establish existence of Hamiltonian cycles for this particular class of cubic Cayley graphs.	usa	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2009	1.01	Journal of algebraic combinatorics	1.137	0.761
1024072276	Hamilton cycles and paths in vertex-transitive graphs - current directions	In this article current directions in solving Lovász's problem about the existence of Hamilton cycles and paths in connected vertex-transitive graphs are given.	nld	North-Holland	2009	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.548	0.761
1024073812	A spectral proof of the uniqueness of a strongly regular graph with parameters (81, 20, 1, 6)	We give a new proof that there exists a unique strongly regular graph with parameters (81, 20, 1, 6). Unlike the finite geometry approach used by Brouwerand haemers, we use linear algebra and spectral graph theory concepts, namely the technique of star complements, in our proof.	gbr	Academic Press	2009	1.01	European journal of combinatorics	0.822	0.761
1024074332	The vibrations of microbeams and nanotubes	Temperature variations can significantly change the dynamic characteristics of macro-, micro- and nano-structures. In the presented article we have studied the microbeams and nanotubes under thermal effects. Microbeams and nanotubes will be very important in the future in the fields of MEMS and NEMS. For the physical explanation of vibrations of nanotubes classical mechanics is valid with some limitations. We have taken into account the influence of thermal force, axial force in rotating shaft and also gyroscopic effect. The effect of temperature-dependent material properties was considered primarily with respect to the temperature variations. On the basis of our analytical model it is possible to determine the vibrational characteristics in a very wide range of temperatures. In the presented paper it is shown for the first time in scientific literature the combined influence of temperature, gyroscopic effects and rotor speeds on shaft and beam vibrations.	ltu	Public Institution Vibromechanika.	2011	1.01	Journal of Vibroengineering	0.346	1.059
1024077396	The strongly distance-balanced property og the generalized Petersen graphs	A graph ?$X$? is said to be strongly distance-balanced whenever for any edge ?$uv$? of ?$X$? and any positive integer ?$i$?, the number of vertices at distance ?$i$? from ?$u$? and at distance ?$i + 1$? from ?$v$? is equal to the number of vertices at distance ?$i + 1$? from ?$u$? and at distance ?$i$? from ?$v$?. It is proven that for any integers ?$k \ge 2$? and ?$n \ge k^2 + 4k + 1$?, the generalized Petersen graph GP?$(n, k)$? is not strongly distance-balanced.	svn	Društvo matematikov, fizikov in astronomov	2009	1.01	Ars mathematica contemporanea	0.400	0.677
1024082780	Nonlinear vibrational analysis of diesel valve gear	A valve gear system is currently more or less a classical mechanical system in a majority of diesel engines. In our case, diesel engine durability test was carried out incorporating a conventional valve gear. After the 3000-hour engine test, the manifestations of an intensive wear detected on the exhaust side of the valve gear. The wear of the exhaust cam was particularly intensive right under the top. As evident from dynamical analysis and experimental data of the valve gear the loads are excessive mainly on the exhaust cam. The assessment of the minimum oil film thickness at the top of the exhaust cam does not provide any favorable results. As the largest loads are exerted at the top of the cam, where the highest wear was measured, it is necessary to reduce the normal stresses and improve the lubrication properties. Dynamic valve gear analysis was performed in order to estimate cam wear intensity and to compare the new cam designs with the existing ones. The model of the actual valve gear design can be represented by means of the partial differential equations. We used a vibrational system with three degrees of freedom. Partial differential equations were solved by means of finite differences and Runge-Kutta methods. Vibrational analysis allows studying kinematic and dynamic behavior of the nonlinear spring and nonlinearity of the damping forces in the valve gear system. The presented theory will be applied in the future research works for determining the conditions for chaotic behavior of the valve gear system. The dynamic model of the valve gear was used to analyze the causes of the excessive wear. Since the cam, designed in accordance with the polysine curve, offered too few possibilities for an optimum cam profile, we wanted to manufacture a completely new type of cam with more possibilities for an optimum adjustment. At the same time, we attempted to summarize some findings on the dependence of the cam design on the fuel consumption and valve gear noise. Thereby a new MULTICAM cam was developed. Contrary to the conventional theory of polysine cam, the motion in the MULTICAM cam can be written by means of seven curves. The analysis of Hertz pressures provides more favorable results for the MULTICAM cam profile. By using the new cam profile the Hertz pressures were substantially reduced. The top of the cam is subjected to the lowest loads with the MULTICAM curve shape. In spite of a higher contact force the normal stresses are lower mainly due to the higher radius of cam curvature. Dynamic analysis demonstrates that both newly designed cams exhibit lower stresses at the top of the cam and better lubrication properties, whereas the flow geometrical cross-sections and the other control values remain similar for all three cam versions.	ltu	Public Institution Vibromechanika.	2011	1.01	Journal of Vibroengineering	0.346	1.059
1024085332	Distance-transitive graphs admit semiregular automorphisms	A distance-transitive graph is a graph in which for every two ordered pairs ofvertices ?$(u,v)$? and ?$(u',v')$? such that the distance between ?$u$? and ?$v$? is equal to the distance between ?$u'$? and ?$v'$? there exists an automorphism of the graph mapping ?$u$? to ?$u'$? and ?$v$? to ?$v'$?. A semiregular element of a permutation group is anon-identity element having all cycles of equal length in its cycle decomposition. It is shown that every distance-transitive graph admits a semiregular automorphism.	gbr	Academic Press	2010	1.01	European journal of combinatorics	0.716	0.716
1024088916	Large sets of long distance equienergetic graphs	Distance energy of a graph is a recent energy-type invariant, defined as the absolute deviation of the eigenvalues of the distance matrix of the graph. Two graphs of the same order are said to be distance equienergetic if they have equal distance energy, while they have distinct spectra of their distance matrices. Examples of pairs of distance equienergetic graphs appear in the literature already, but most of them have diameter two only. We describe here the distance spectrum of a special composition of regular graphs, and, as an application, we show that for any ?$n \ge 3$?, there exists a set of ?$n + 1$? distance equienergetic graphs which have order ?$6n$? and diameter ?$n - 1$? each.	svn	Društvo matematikov, fizikov in astronomov	2009	1.01	Ars mathematica contemporanea	0.400	0.677
1024122964	Suicide victims' last contact with the primary care physician	Background: Previous studies have reported that many suicide victims have had contact with their physicians a week or month prior to their suicide. Aims: To assess the date of the last appointment (and complaint) of suicide victims in the Škofja Loka region within Slovenia. Method: We included all suicide victims in the region in the period 1993-2003. Each of the cases was assigned the closest control in terms of age and gender. Medical death certifi cates served as a source of demographic data information and information about suicide method. From personal medical records we obtained the date of the last appointment (and the complaint) with the primary care physician. The same was done for the control group. The groups were compared for their last appointment with their physician (date and complaint). Results: Thirty out of 77 suicide victims visited their physician in the last month before suicide (16/77 in the last week); only 16/77 controls did so before the index day (3/77 in the last week). In 30% of suicide victims, the reason for the last visit was mental health problems (only 3% in the control group). Conclusion: The results emphasize the important role of primary care physicians in suicide prevention.	gbr	Avenue Publishing Co	2010	1.01	International Journal of Social Psychiatry	1.106	2.129
1024132929	Semidefinite approximations for quadratic programs over orthogonal matrices	Finding global optimum of a non-convex quadratic function is in general a verydifficult task even when the feasible set is a polyhedron. We show that when the feasible set of a quadratic problem consists of orthogonal matrices from Rn*k, then we can transform it into a semidefinite program in matrices oforder kn which has the same optimal value. This opens new possibilities to get good lower bounds for several problems from combinatorial optimization, like the Graph partitioning problem (GPP), the Quadratic assignment problem (QAP) etc. In particular we show how to improve significantly the well-known Donath-Hoffman eigenvalue lower bound for GPP by semidefinite programming. In the last part of the paper we show that the copositive strengthening of the semidefinite lower bounds for GPP and QAP yields the exact values.	nld	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2010	1.01	Journal of global optimization	1.160	0.936
1024151873	Rasch-based high-dimensionality data reduction and class prediction with applications to microarray gene expression data	Class prediction is an important application of microarray gene expression data analysis. The high-dimensionality of microarray data, where number of genes (variables) is very large compared to the number of samples (observations), makes the application of many prediction techniques (e.g., logistic regression, discriminant analysis) difficult. An efficient way to solve this problem is by using dimension reduction statistical techniques. Increasingly used in psychology-related applications, Rasch model (RM) provides an appealing framework for handling high-dimensional microarray data.In this paper, we study the potential of RM-based modeling in dimensionality reduction with binarized microarray gene expression data and investigate its prediction accuracy in the context of class prediction using linear discriminant analysis. Two different publicly available microarray datasets are used to illustrate a general framework of the approach. Performance of the proposed method is assessed by re-randomization scheme using principal component analysis (PCA) as a benchmark method. Our results show that RM-based dimension reduction is as effective as PCA-based dimension reduction. The method is general and can be applied to the other high-dimensional data problems.	gbr	Pergamon	2010	1.01	Expert systems with applications	1.924	1.203
10241563	Influence of flow properties on a structure of a mineral wool primary layer	Mineral wool primary layer formation is influenced by the aerodynamic characteristics of the blow-away airflow and the secondary surrounding airflow. The distribution of mineral wool fibres in the primary layer was determined experimentally using a computer-aided visualization method. The flow properties in the region where the primary layer is formed were analysed.Numerical simulations with experiment-based boundary conditions were performed. The numerically obtained profile of mineral wool thickness at the collection chamber outlet agreed with the results of the experiment. Presented numerical model confirms that the forming of the primary layer is significantly dependent on local aerodynamic characteristic of the airflow in the collection chamber. Interaction between the local anomalies on the forming layer and the corresponding aerodynamic effects in the surrounding region was also analysed.	usa	Elsevier Science Publ.	2007	1.01	ETF science	0.774	0.706
1024166977	Development of e-government services for citizens in Slovenia	In the process of Slovenian public administration reform from bureaucratic administration to modern administration following new public management and e-governance approaches, one can see logical development of all necessary legal and strategic acts but less so in the practice. The basic method used inour survey on e-communication of Slovenian public administration with citizens was sending e-mails with relevant questions to general e-mail addresses of the most important public administration and government institutions. Based on the results, we can argue that there was certain progress made in providing quality public service in the area of quality correspondence with citizens in Slovenia. However, more systematic efforts have to be made to improve the situation. This is necessary, especially in case of Slovenian municipalities, which usually have necessary human and technical resources, but they have to be additionally educated in ""electronic literacy"" as well as have an understanding that the public administration rolehas to be changed from self-sufficient organization to public service, enabling people to deal with things other than bureaucratic matters.	usa	M. E. Sharpe, Inc.	2010	1.01	Eastern European economics	0.298	1.022
1024169812	Trends in patients' satisfaction with family practice in Slovenia	Objective: To compare patient's views on family practice in Slovenia in 1998 and 2004. Methods: The EUROPEP instrument, consisting of 23 questions was used in both cross-sectional surveys. The first study was performed in 1998 including a sample of 36 family practices and 2160 patients. The second study was conducted in 2004 on a sample of 31 practices and 930 patients. Results: The response rates were 83,8% and 99,6%. Overall, patients' satisfaction has increased from 86,6 to 87,7 points on a 100-point scale (p = 0,034). Improvement is seen in all but four items. Making it easy to tell about their problems was evaluated with same mean score. Involving patients in decisions about their medical care and being able to speak to general practitioner on the telephone were evaluated lower, but non-significant. The only item that shows statistically significant decrease in the mean scores is getting throughto the practice on the phone. By far the lowest satisfaction was reported with waiting in the waiting room in both surveys. The highest scores got in both surveys the confidentiality of medical records, and listening capacity of family doctors. Conclusion: The results of our study provide a clear insight in the trends of satisfaction of family practice visitors in Slovenia. These trends are positive but the results also identified possible areas for quality improvement, such as in the telephone accessibility, management of waiting time in the waiting room and doctor-patient communication skills.	svn	Inštitut za varovanje zdravja Republike Slovenije	2009	1.01	Zdravstveno varstvo	0.452	1.491
1024170324	Prescribing of benzodiazepines among slovenian family physicians	Izhodišèa: Kljub stranskim uèinkom so benzodiazepini najpogosteje predpisani psihofarmaki v družinski medicini. Z raziskavo smo ocenjevali povezanost znaèilnosti zdravnikov, znaèilnosti ambulantnega dela in velikosti populacije bolnikov s predpisovanjem benzodiazepinov pri slovenskih zdravnikih družinske medicine. Metode: Na reprezentativnem vzorcu stotih zdravnikov družinske medicine smo z multiplo linearno regresijo ocenili, kateri dejavniki vplivajo na pogosto predpisovanje benzodiazepinov. Rezultati: Zdravniki družinske medicine v Sloveniji predpišejo v povpreèju skoraj trikrat manj benzodiazepinov kot v Veliki Britaniji. Manj pogosto so benzodiazepine predpisovali zdravniki z manjšim številom opredeljenih bolnikov, zdravnice, mlajši zdravniki, specializanti, zdravniki s krajšo delovno dobo in zdravniki v veèjih krajih v osrednjem delu države. Delež benzodiazepinov med vsemi recepti za psihofarmake je bil veèji pri starejših zdravnikih in zdravnikih, ki na delovnem mestu niso imeli dostopa do spletne informacijske podpore pri predpisovanju zdravil. Zakljuèek: Zdravniki družinske medicine v Sloveniji zmerno predpisujejo benzodiazepine. Manjše predpisovanje je povezano z manjšimi delovnimi obremenitvami, ženskim spolom, nižjo starostjo, umešèenostjo ambulante v centralnih delih Slovenije in dostopom do spletne informacijske podpore pri predpisovanju zdravil na delovnem mestu.	svn	Inštitut za varovanje zdravja Republike Slovenije	2009	1.01	Zdravstveno varstvo	0.452	1.491
1024170580	The presence of anxiety and depression in the adult population of family practice patients with chronic diseases	Izhodišèa: Pogostnost prisotnosti veè soèasnih bolezni pri bolnikih v ambulantah družinske medicine narašèa. Prisotnost psihiatriènih soèasnih bolezni pri bolnikih s kroniènimi boleznimi pa je dejavnik tveganja za prezgodnjo umrljivost. Cilji: Cilj te raziskave je bil ugotoviti pogostnost anksioznosti in depresije med odraslo aktivno populacijo (starost med 18 in 64let) s pridruženimi kroniènimi boleznimi v ambulantah družinske medicine. Metode: Narejena je bila preseèna raziskava na vzorcu 500 zaporednih obiskovalcev 12 ambulant družinske medicine. Za ugotavljanje prisotnosti anksioznosti in depresije sta bila uporabljena v slovenšèino prevedena Zungova vprašalnika o anksioznosti in depresiji. Rezultati: Odzivnost bolnikov je bila 90,4 %. Anksioznost je bila prisotna pri 8,4 % bolnikov, depresija pa pri 15,2 % bolnikov. 40,7 % bolnikov je imelo vsaj eno kronièno bolezen. Depresija in anksioznost sta bili prisotni pri statistièno znaèilno veèjem številu bolnikov s pridruženimi kroniènimi boleznimi glede na bolnike brez kroniènih bolezni (p=0.001, p<0.001; zaporedno; test ?2) in s pridruženo kronièno boleèino glede na bolnike brez kroniène boleèine (p<0.001, p<0.001; zaporedno; test ?2). Statistièno znaèilno veè bolnikov z revmatièno boleznijo glede na bolnike brez le-tega je imelo prisotno depresijo (p=0.018; test ?2). Statistièno znaèilno veè bolnikov z migreno oziroma revmatiènim obolenjem v primerjavi z bolniki brez teh bolezni je imelo prisotno anksioznost (p=0.010, p=0.030; zaporedno; test ?2). Kronièna boleèina je bila prisotna pri statistièno znaèilno veèjem številu bolnikov z doloèeno kronièno boleznijo v primerjavi s tistimi brez nje (p<0.050; test ?2). Zakljuèki: Zdravniki družinske medicine naj aktivno išèejo in zdravijo pridružene psihiatriène bolezni tudi med aktivno populacijo bolnikov s kroniènimi boleznimi.	svn	Inštitut za varovanje zdravja Republike Slovenije	2009	1.01	Zdravstveno varstvo	0.452	1.491
1024189012	Classification of edge-transitive rose window graphs	Given natural numbers ?$n \ge 3$? and ?$1 \le a$?, ?$r \le n-1$?, the rose window graph ?$R_n(a,r)$? is a quartic graph with vertex set ?$\{x_i \vert i \in {\mathbb Z}_n\} \cup \{y_i \vert i \in {\mathbb Z}_n\}$? and edge set ?$\{\{x_i, x_{i+1}\} \vert i \in {\mathbb Z}_n\} \cup \{\{y_i, y_{i+r}\} \vert i \in {\mathbb Z}_n\} \cup \{\{x_i, y_i\} \vert i \in {\mathbb Z}_n\} \cup \{\{x_{i+a}, y_i\} \vert i \in {\mathbb Z}_n\}$?. In this article a complete classification of edge-transitive rose window graphs is given, thus solving one of three open problems about these graphs posed by Steve Wilson in 2001.	usa	John Wiley	2010	1.01	Journal of graph theory	0.561	0.716
1024192340	Vertex-transitive expansions of (1, 3)-trees	A nonidentity automorphism of a graph is said to be semiregular if all of its orbits are of the same length. Given a graph ?$X$? with a semiregular automorphism ?$\gamma$?, the quotient of ?$X$? relative to ?$\gamma$? is the multigraph ?$X/\gamma$? whose vertices are the orbits of ?$\gamma$? and two vertices are adjacent by an edge with multiplicity ?$r$? if every vertex of one orbit is adjacent to ?$r$? vertices of the other orbit. We say that ?$X$? is an expansion of ?$X/\gamma$?. In [J.D. Horton, I.Z. Bouwer, Symmetric ?$Y$?-graphs and ?$H$?-graphs, J. Combin. Theory Ser. B 53 (1991) 114-129], Hortonand Bouwer considered a restricted sort of expansions (which we will call :strong"" in this paper) where every leaf of ?$X/\gamma$? expands to a single cycle in ?$X$?. They determined all cubic arc-transitive strong expansions of simple ?$(1,3)$?-trees, that is, trees with all of their vertice shaving valency 1 or 3, thus extending the classical result of Frucht, Graver and Watkins (see [R. Frucht, J.E. Graver, M.E. Watkins, The groups of the generalized Petersen graphs, Proc. Cambridge Philos. Soc. 70 (1971) 211-218]) about arc-transitive strong expansions of ?$K_2$? (also known as the generalized Petersen graphs). In this paper another step is taken further by considering the possible structure of cubic vertex-transitive expansions of general ?$(1,3)$?-multitrees (where vertices with double edges are also allowed); thus the restriction on every leaf to be expanded to a single cycle is dropped.	nld	Elsevier	2010	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.536	0.716
1024195924	Rose window graphs underlying rotary maps	Given natural numbers ?$n \ge 3$? and ?$1 \le a$?, ?$r \le n-1$?, the rose window graph ?$R_n(a,r)$? is a quartic graph with vertex set ?$\{x_i \vert\; i \in {\mathbb Z}_n \} \cup \{y_i \vert\; i \in {\mathbb Z}_n \}$? and edge set ?$\{\{x_i, x_{i+1}\} \vert\; i \in {\mathbb Z}_n \} \cup \{\{y_i, y_{i+1}\} \vert\; i \in {\mathbb Z}_n \} \cup \{\{x_i, y_i\} \vert\; i \in {\mathbb Z}_n\} \cup \{\{x_{i+a}, y_i\} \vert\; i \in {\mathbb Z}_n \}$?. In this paper rotary maps on rose window graphs are considered. In particular, we answer the question posed in [S. Wilson, Rose window graphs, Ars Math. Contemp. 1 (2008), 7-19. http://amc.imfm.si/index.php/amc/issue/view/5] concerning which of these graphs underlie a rotary map.	nld	Elsevier	2010	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.536	0.716
1024223828	On vertex-stabilizers of bipartite dual polar graphs	Let ?$X,Y$? denote vertices of a bipartite dual polar graph, and let ?$G_X$? and ?$G_Y$? denote the stabilizers of ?$X$? and ?$Y$? in the full automorphism group of this graph. In this paper, a description of the orbits of ?$G_X \cap G_Y$? in the cases when the distance between ?$X$? and ?$Y$? is 1 or 2, is given.	svn	Društvo matematikov, fizikov in astronomov	2010	1.01	Ars mathematica contemporanea	0.400	0.677
1024227156	Adolescent substance dependency in relation to parental substance (ab)use	Problem: Relations between adolescents' substance dependency status (yes-no) as independent and adolescent self and family evaluations and parental indicators of substance dependency as dependent variables were studied. Methods: All together 197 families were included (father, mother, adolescent -mean age of adolescent was 17.2 years). Rosenberg self - esteem scale, originally constructed semantic differential perceived family climate, Zung depression scale and SASSI-3 (Substance Abuse Subtle Screening Inventory) instrument were applied. Multivariate and univariate approach were applied to verify hypotheses about differences in dependent variables regarding the independent one also with estimated mothers' and fathers' dependency as two covariates. Results: Level of depression was significantly higher, but level of self-esteem and family climate evaluation were significantly lower in dependent adolescents. Fathers of non-dependent adolescents and mothers of dependent adolescents were found more substance dependency vulnerable. Adolescent dependence status differed more frequently in fathers' than in mothers' SASSI-3 sub scores. Conclusions: Results indicate that in group of substance dependent adolescent families with healthier and more engaged fathers participated in the study. Support for mothers' vulnerability and need for fathers' involvement in treatment of dependent adolescent is underlined.	svn	Inštitut za varovanje zdravja Republike Slovenije	2010	1.01	Zdravstveno varstvo	0.452	1.491
1024227412	Patients' adherence to treatment of diabetes mellitus	Objectives: Diabetes is a chronic disease where patient's ability for self management is very important. Patients are every day taking decisions how to integrate treatment recommendations into their lives without impacting the quality of life. The aim of this study was to explore participants' perceived barriers to adherence to treatment. Methods: A qualitative study with five focus groups of patients with Type 2 diabetes and one group of experts on diabetes mellitus was performed in the central area of Slovenia. The transcribed text was independently analysed by principles of grounded theory with codes merging into themes and categories . Results: Time changes patients' attitudes toward disease. Good education about the disease and their own experience with the disease help patients to adapt to different life situations and to regain control in their life. Family and friends are not always supportive to diabetes treatment. Some patients deny having disease in social encounters because they feel stigmatised. Diabetes also challenges patient's working ability and financial welfare. Patients also emphasise that mutual trust with physician and his true interest in patients' problems is very important for good results of medical care. They refuse universal advice and expect that the doctor helps them to develop self-management skills and coping with the disease. Additional prerequisites for good self management are also adequate organisation of life and adequate personal characteristics of the patients. Discussion: This study offers additional insights into patients' views of the barriers to adherence. Patients feel empowered for occasional departure from recommended treatment in some social and life situations. Better medical care could be the result of good balance between social expectations of the patients, treatment and working demands on one side and individualised support of the physician with patients' own capacity torear range life on the other side.	svn	Inštitut za varovanje zdravja Republike Slovenije	2010	1.01	Zdravstveno varstvo	0.452	1.491
1024238932	Complexity results for equistable graphs and related classes	The class of equistable graphs is defined by the existence of a cost structureon the vertices such that the maximal stable sets are characterized by their costs. This graph class, not contained in any nontrivial hereditary class, has so far been studied mostly from a structural point of view; characterizations and polynomial time recognition algorithms have been obtained for special cases. We focus on complexity issues for equistable graphs and related classes. We describe a simple pseudo-polynomial-time dynamic programming algorithm to solve the maximum weight stable set problem along with the weighted independent domination problem in some classes of graphs, including equistable graphs. Our results are obtained within the wider context of Boolean optimization; corresponding hardness results are also provided. More specifically, we show that the above problems are APX-hard for equistable graphs and that it is co-NP-complete to determine whether a given cost function on the vertices of a graph defines an equistable cost structure of that graph.	nld	J.C. Baltzer AG	2011	1.01	Annals of operations research	0.840	1.039
1024247361	Towards the strategies of modern societies	While several sociological theories have traditionally dealt with rational action by human actors, little attention has been devoted to the possibilitiesfor rational steering of the entire subsystems of functionally differentiated modern societies in the context of their increasing complexity.Although rational intentional action is clearly limited at the macro-level by the complexity emphasized by Luhmann's social systems theory, strategies are required to approach the normative ideal of active society as defined by Etzioni. Understanding the strategic processes requires micromacro and agencystructure connections. A possible solution to understanding strategyas a social process in this respect is found in the adaptation of the three-level individuality, reality and totality approach of Sztompka's theory of social becoming.	gbr	Carfax Publishing Company	2010	1.01	Innovation	0.326	0.87
1024253268	An infinite family of half-arc-transitive graphs with universal reachability relation	A distance-transitive graph is a graph in which for every two ordered pairs ofvertices ?$(u,v)$? and ?$(u',v')$? such that the distance between ?$u$? and ?$v$? is equal to the distance between ?$u'$? and ?$v'$? there exists an automorphism of the graph mapping ?$u$? to ?$u'$? and ?$v$? to ?$v'$?. A semiregular element of a permutation group is anon-identity element having all cycles of equal length in its cycle decomposition. It is shown that every distance-transitive graph admits a semiregular automorphism.	gbr	Academic Press	2010	1.01	European journal of combinatorics	0.716	0.716
1024258132	Balancing equity and efficiency through health care policies in Slovenia during the period 1990-2008	Background: Slovenia's 1992 health reform set the following five goals: introduction of social health insurance system and a system of co-payment fora range of health care services; introduction of private practice in healthcare; devolution of planning and control functions from the State to professional associations and municipalitie;, and introduction of licensing and recertification for health professionals. Methods: A descriptive and explorative analysis was done of general demographic, economic and health financing data and the reported data on financing structure. The general population health indicators for the observed period are presented. A broad health policy context was assessed through participatory observation during the whole period and using semi-structured interviews with key national healthpolicy-makers in 2001, which served as a mid-term review. Results: Transformation of health care system in Slovenia led to sustainable health care financing at a level of approx. 8.5% of GDP. This result was achieved atthe expense of reduced public funding, which was partially compensated for by the supplementary health insurance and partially by an increase in out-of-pocket expenditures. Private expenditures increased the system's regressivity, which was corrected through risk-equalising schemes and by subsidising supplementary health insurance to the least well off. Conclusions: Slovenia's health care transition took place during a period of economic growth, which afforded stable financing of the system and restricted the capacity of health care providers. This environment had a favourable impact on the general health situation of the population, and thereby reduced pressures on the new system. The previous system was transformed into a mixed social health insurance based system, based on a strong central insurer. The present financing scheme is unlikely to remain sustainable because of demographic trends and other drivers increasing unmet health care needs.	svn	Inštitut za varovanje zdravja Republike Slovenije	2010	1.01	Zdravstveno varstvo	0.452	1.491
10242587	Buckling of plates with strengthenings	This paper studies the buckling behaviour of simply supported square plates, which have weakening or strengthening bands. The weakening/strengthening bandsare equally spaced and their thickness is either decreased or increased. The analysis assumes that the stress state in the plate before and during the buckling process remains in the elastic range. Two cases of plate loading are studied, one with compressive forces and one with tangential forces. The buckling coefficients are calculated for different numbers and thicknesses of strengtheningžweakening bands. The thickness of strengtheningžweakening bands and the thickness of the remaining plate is varied so that the volume/weight of the plate remains constant. In one case it is found that the buckling load at constant weight of the plate can be increased by 118% if an optimal ratio of the thickness of strengthening bands and the thickness of the remaining plate is used.	gbr	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Thin-walled structures	0.552	0.617
1024258900	Stakeholders' interests through their opinions on the alcohol policy measures in Slovenia	Aims: The purpose of the study was to determine how the stakeholders involved in alcohol policy in Slovenia view the importance and impact of alcohol policymeasures in alcohol-related harm reduction, and to identify their interests. Methods: The questionnaire comprising 25 statements across nine alcohol policy domains was sent to 320 stakeholders involved in alcohol policyin Slovenia. They were divided into the following four main groups: governmental organisations, public health organisations, non-governmental organisations and alcohol industry. The data collected were analysed using the SPSS programme. Differences between the groups concerning their views on individual alcohol policy interventions were measured using the ANOVA and T-test. Results: Factor analysis of stakeholders' views identified three main alcohol policy platforms: education, regulation and pricing. All the participating stakeholders emphasized education, communication, training and raising public awareness as the most important activities that had the greatest impact on the reduction of alcohol-related harm. Governmental and non-governmental organisations and public health institutions assigned significantly higher scores to the impact of regulatory alcohol policy measures and to the importance of regulatory policies on reducing alcohol-related harm than the alcohol industry. The alcohol industry perceived the pricing measures taken to reduce harm done by alcohol as having a significantly lower impact and lesser importance than did the group of otherstakeholders. Conclusions: Like similar studies of attitudes towards alcohol policy in Europe, our research showed that different stakeholders are guided by different interests in relation to particular alcohol policy measures; however, these differences were lesser than those identified at the EU level. In spite of stakeholders' different interests and views concerning particular alcohol strategies and alcohol policy in general, we have identified common grounds for them to work together to prepare better and more effective measures of alcohol-related harm prevention in Slovenia.	svn	Inštitut za varovanje zdravja Republike Slovenije	2010	1.01	Zdravstveno varstvo	0.452	1.491
1024267092	Competitive Boolean function evaluation	We study the extremal competitive ratio of Boolean function evaluation. We provide the first non-trivial lower and upper bounds for classes of Boolean functions which are not included in the class of monotone Boolean functions. For the particular case of symmetric functions our bounds are matching and we exactly characterize the best possible competitiveness achievable by a deterministic algorithm. Our upper bound is obtained by a simple polynomial time algorithm.	nld	North-Holland	2011	1.01	Discrete Applied Mathematics	0.795	0.89
1024270932	On non-normal arc-transitive 4-valent dihedrants	Let ?$X$? be a connected non-normal 4-valent arc-transitive Cayley graph on a dihedral group ?$D_n$? such that ?$X$? is bipartite, with the two bipartition sets being the two orbits of the cyclic subgroup within ?$D_n$?. It is shown that ?$X$? is isomorphic either to the lexicographic product ?$C_n[2K_1]$? with ?$n \geq 4$? even, or to one of the five sporadic graphs on 10, 14, 26, 28 and 30 vertices, respectively.	deu	Springer	2010	1.01	Acta mathematica Sinica	0.540	0.716
1024271188	Sleep patterns in parkinson's disease patients with visual hallucinations	Visual hallucinations (VHs) in Parkinson's disease (PD) can be a frequent and disturbing complication of the disease with 33% of PD patients undergoing long-term treatment experiencing VHs during the course of their illness. One line of evidence that is emerging as a possible risk factor in the occurrence of VHs is the sleep-wake cycle and sleep behavior in patients with PD. This study compared sleep patterns in a group of visually hallucinating Parkinson'spatients with a group of nonhallucinating PD patients and an age-matched control group. Nocturnal sleep was assessed by actigraphy and diaries, while daytime sleepiness and function were assessed by a battery of self-rating sleep questionnaires. Compared with the control group both patientgroups had more sleep-related problems and significantly altered sleep patterns, as measured by both actigraphy and sleep questionnaires. Patients who hallucinated however slept less than nonhallucinating patients and also had increased awakenings after sleep onset, reduced sleep efficiency, and increased daytime sleepiness. We propose that VHs in some PD patients may be a symptom of poor sleep and prolonged daytime sleepiness, suggesting that arousal may play a role in the genesis of the hallucination phenomenon.	usa	Gordon and Breach.	2010	1.01	International journal of neuroscience	0.818	3.52
1024284244	On the Polya permanent problem over finite fields	Let F be a finite field of characteristic different from 2. We show that no bijective map transforms the permanent into the determinant when the cardinality of F is sufficiently large. We also give an example of a non-bijective map when F is arbitrary and an example of a bijective map when Fis infinite which do transform the permanent into the determinant. The technique developed allows us to estimate the probability of the permanent andthe determinant of matrices over finite fields having a given value. Our results are also true over finite rings without zero divisors.	gbr	Academic Press	2010	1.01	European journal of combinatorics	0.716	0.716
1024287316	Within-host viral evolution in a heterogeneous environment	A virus infecting a host faces a heterogeneous and a spatially structured environment. Using a mathematical model that incorporates two types of target cells and spatial structuring, we investigate conditions for viral withinhost diversification. We show that branching occurs for a wide range of parameters but that it always requires some spatial structure. Applying our model to the case of HIV, we show that it captures three main properties of the co-receptor switchæ observed in many HIV infections: the initial dominance ofvirus strains that infect CCR5+ cells, the late switch in some (but, importantly, not all) HIV infections and the associated drop in the number of uninfected T-cells. This suggests that the co-receptor switch could result from gradual adaptation of the virus population to target cell heterogeneity. More generally, we argue that evolutionary ecology can help us better understand the course of some infections.	che	Birkhäuser	2010	1.01	Journal of evolutionary biology	3.656	2.52
1024287572	Validation of the name Edraianthus sutjeskae (Campanulaceae), a narrow endemic of southeastern Dinaric Alps (eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina)	Edraianthus sutjeskae R. Lakus!ic, originaly described in 1974, was an invalidly published name because in its type citation the collector's name and collection date were omitted. Hereby we validate the name by indicating the holotype kept at the Natural Museum of Bosnia and Herzegovina (SARA).	dnk	Council for Nordic Publications in Botany	2010	1.03	Nordic journal of botany	0.761	1.835
1024290881	Budgetary perspective on police force	The author explores some of the generally overlooked roles of police force in contemporary world. The last decade was strongly marked by a need forincreased safety, and police forces were strongly motivated to change the security paradigm. However, a connection between police and security can be seen as well, through the budget, where the activity of the police is measuredusing the amount of revenues obtained from fees and fines. In the caseof the Slovenian security situation and fine revenues, police has both themain role in providing a certain level of national internal security and animportant budgetary role by providing 1% of the Slovenian budgetary revenuesthat are sufficient to cover the expenses of approximately 15 main institutions belonging to the political system.	rou	Faculty of Political Sciences, Public Administration and Communication	2011	1.01	Transylvanian review of administrative sciences	0.284	0.788
1024291668	Edge connectivity in difference graphs and some new constructions of partial sum families	In this paper, bounds for the edge connectivity of m-Cayley graphs are found, and also several structural conditions are given for a connected k-regular bi-abelian graph to have edge connectivity strictly less than k. Finally, two infinite families of partial sum families that generate directed strongly regular graphs with new parameters are shown.	gbr	Academic Press	2011	1.01	European journal of combinatorics	0.677	0.677
1024297793	Effects of hippotherapy and therapeutic horseback riding on postural control or balance in children with cerebral palsy	Aim. This research review and meta-analysis presents an overview of the effects of hippotherapy and therapeutic horseback riding (THR) on postural control or balance in children with cerebral palsy (CP). Method. To synthesizeprevious research findings, a systematic review and meta-analysis were undertaken. Relevant studies were identified by systematic searches of multiple online databases from the inception of the database through to May 2010. Studies were included if they fulfilled the following criteria: (1) quantitative study design, (2) investigation of the effect of hippotherapy or THR on postural control or balance, and (3) the study group comprised childrenand adults with CP. The selected articles were rated for methodological quality. The treatment effect was coded as a dichotomous outcome (positive effect or no effect) and quantified by odds ratio (OR). The pooled treatment effect was calculated using a random-effects model. Meta-regression of the effect size was performed against study covariates, including study size, publication date, and methodological quality score. Results. From 77 identified studies, 10 met the inclusion criteria. Two were excluded because they did not include a comparison group. Therapy was found tobe effective in 76 out of 84 children with CP included in the intervention groups. The comparison groups comprised 89 children: 50 non-disabled and 39 with CP. A positive effect was shown in 21 of the children with CP in the comparison group regardless of the activity undertaken (i.e. physiotherapy, occupational therapy, sitting on a barrel or in an artificial saddle). The pooled effect size estimate was positive (OR 25.41, 95% CI 4.35, 148.53), demonstrating a statistically significant effectiveness of hippotherapy or THRin children with CP (p<0.001). Meta-regression of study characteristics revealed no study-specific factors. Interpretation. The eight studies found that postural control and balance were improved during hippotherapy and THR. Although the generalization of our findings may be restricted by the relatively small sample size, the results clearly demonstrate that riding therapy is indicated to improve postural control and balance in children with CP.	gbr	Heinemann William Medical Books	2011	1.01	Developmental Medicine and Child Neurology	2.918	1.675
1024316244	Characterization of edge-transitive 4-valent bicirculants	A bicirculant is a graph admitting an automorphism with exactly two vertex-orbits of equal size. All non-isomorphic 4-valent edge-transitive bicirculants are characterized in this article. As a corollary, a characterization of 4-valent arc-transitive dihedrants is obtained.	usa	John Wiley	2012	1.01	Journal of graph theory	0.524	0.677
1024343873	Dominating biological networks	Proteins are essential macromolecules of life that carry out most cellular processes. Since proteins aggregate to perform function, and since protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks model these aggregations, one wouldexpect to uncover new biology from PPI network topology. Hence, using PPInetworks to predict protein function and role of protein pathways in disease has received attention. A debate remains open about whether network properties of ŽŽbiologically central (BC)'' genes (i.e., their protein products), such as those involved in aging, cancer, infectious diseases, or signaling and drugtargeted pathways, exhibit some topological centrality compared to the rest of the proteins in the human PPI network. To help resolvethis debate, we design new network-based approaches and apply them to get new insight into biological function and disease. We hypothesize that BC genes have a topologically central (TC) role in the human PPI network. We propose two different concepts of topological centrality. We design a new centrality measure to capture complex wirings of proteins in the network that identifies as TC those proteins that reside in dense extended network neighborhoods. Also, we use the notion of domination and find dominating sets (DSs) in the PPI network, i.e., sets of proteins such that every protein is either in the DS or is a neighbor of the DS. Clearly, a DS has a TC role, as it enables efficient communication between different network parts. We find statistically significant enrichment in BC genes of TC nodes and outperform the existing methods indicating that genes involved in key biological processes occupy topologically complex and dense regions of the network and correspond to its ŽŽspine'' that connects all other network parts and can thuspass cellular signals efficiently throughout the network. To our knowledge, this is the first study that explores domination in the context of PPI networks.	usa	Public Library of Science	2011	1.01	PloS one	4.092	2.115
1024344129	Integrative network alignment reveals large regions of global network similarity in yeast and human	Motivation: High-throughput methods for detecting molecular interactions have produced large sets of biological network data with much more yet to come. Analogous to sequence alignment, efficient and reliable network alignment methods are expected to improve our understanding of biological systems. Unlike sequence alignment, network alignment is computationally intractable. Hence, devising efficient network alignment heuristics is currently a foremostchallenge in computational biology. Results: We introduce a novel network alignment algorithm, called Matching-based Integrative GRAph ALigner (MI-GRAAL), which can integrate any number and type of similarity measures between network nodes (e.g. proteins), including, but not limited to, any topological network similarity measure, sequence similarity, functional similarity and structural similarity. Hence, we resolve the ties in similaritymeasures and find a combination of similarity measures yielding the largest contiguous (i.e. connected) and biologically sound alignments. MI-GRAAL exposes the largest functional, connected regions of protein-protein interaction (PPI) network similarity to date: surprisingly, it reveals that 77.7% of proteins in the baker's yeast high-confidence PPI network participatein such a subnetwork that is fully contained in the human highconfidence PPI network. This is the first demonstration that species as diverse as yeast and human contain so large, continuous regions of global network similarity. We apply MI-GRAAL's alignments to predict functions of un-annotated proteins in yeast, human and bacteria validating our predictions in the literature. Furthermore, using network alignment scores for PPI networks of different herpes viruses, we reconstruct their phylogenetic relationship. This is the first time that phylogeny is exactly reconstructed from purely topological alignments of PPI networks.	gbr	Oxford University Press	2011	1.01	Bioinformatics	5.468	1.811
1024344385	GraphCrunch 2	Background: Recent advancements in experimental biotechnology have produced large amounts of proteinprotein interaction (PPI) data. The topology of PPI networks is believed to have a strong link to their function. Hence, the abundance of PPI data for many organisms stimulates the development of computational techniques for the modeling, comparison, alignment, and clustering of networks. In addition, finding representative models for PPI networks will improve our understanding of the cell just as a model of gravityhas helped us understand planetary motion. To decide if a model is representative, we need quantitative comparisons of model networks to real ones. However, exact network comparison is computationally intractable and therefore several heuristics have been used instead. Some of these heuristics are easily computable Žnetwork properties,Ž such as the degree distribution, or the clustering coefficient. An important special case of network comparisonis the network alignment problem. Analogous to sequence alignment, this problem asks to find the ŽbestŽ mapping between regions in two networks. It is expected that network alignment might have as strong an impact on our understanding of biology as sequence alignment has had. Topology-based clustering of nodes in PPI networks is another example of an important networkanalysis problem that can uncover relationships between interaction patterns and phenotype. Results: We introduce the GraphCrunch 2 software tool,which addresses these problems. It is a significant extension of GraphCrunch which implements the most popular random network models and compares them with the data networks with respect to many network properties. Also, GraphCrunch 2 implements the GRAph ALigner algorithm (""GRAALŽ) for purely topological network alignment. GRAAL can align any pair of networks andexposes large, dense, contiguous regions of topological and functional similarities far larger than any other existing tool. Finally, GraphCruch 2 implements an algorithm for clustering nodes within a network based solely on their topological similarities. Using GraphCrunch 2, we demonstrate that eukaryotic and viral PPI networks may belong to different graph model familiesand show that topology-based clustering can reveal important functional similarities between proteins within yeast and human PPI networks. Conclusions: GraphCrunch 2 is a software tool that implements the latest research on biological network analysis. It parallelizes computationally intensive tasks to fully utilize the potential of modern multi-core CPUs. It is opensource and freely available for research use. It runs under the Windowsand Linux platforms.	gbr	BioMed Central	2011	1.01	BMC bioinformatics	2.751	1.811
1024345153	Protein interaction network topology uncovers melanogenesis regulatory network components within functional genomics datasets	Abstract Background: RNA-mediated interference (RNAi)-based functional genomics is a systems-level approach to identify novel genes that control biological phenotypes. Existing computational approaches can identify individual genes from RNAi datasets that regulate a given biological process. However, currently available methods cannot identify which RNAi screen ""hits"" are novel components of well-characterized biological pathways known to regulate the interrogated phenotype. In this study, we describe a method to identify genes from RNAi datasets that are novel components of known biological pathways. We experimentally validate our approach in the context ofa recently completed RNAi screen to identify novel regulators of melanogenesis. Results: In this study, we utilize a PPI network topology-basedapproach to identify targets within our RNAi dataset that may becomponents of known melanogenesis regulatory pathways. Our computational approach identifies a set of screen targets that cluster topologically in a human PPI network with the known pigment regulator Endothelin receptor type B (EDNRB). Validation studies reveal that these genes impact pigment production and EDNRB signaling in pigmented melanoma cells (MNT-1) and normal melanocytes. Conclusions: We present an approach that identifies novel components of well-characterized biological pathways from functional genomics datasets that could not have been identified by existing statistical and computational approaches.	gbr	BioMed Central	2010	1.01	BMC systems biology	3.565	1.868
1024345409	Geometric de-noising of protein-protein interaction networks	Understanding complex networks of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) is one of the foremost challenges of the postgenomic era. Due to the recent advances in experimental bio-technology, including yeast-2-hybrid (Y2H), tandem affinity purification (TAP) and other high-throughput methods for protein-protein interaction (PPI) detection, huge amounts of PPI network data are becoming available. Of major concern, however, are the levels of noise andincompleteness. For example, for Y2H screens, it is thought that the false positive rate could be as high as 64%, and the false negative rate may range from 43% to 71%. TAP experiments are believed to have comparable levels of noise. We present a novel technique to assess the confidence levels of interactions in PPI networks obtained from experimental studies. We use it forpredicting new interactions and thus for guiding future biological experiments. This technique is the first to utilize currently the best fittingnetwork model for PPI networks, geometric graphs. Our approach achievesspecificity of 85% and sensitivity of 90%. We use it to assign confidence scores to physical protein-protein interactions in the human PPI network downloaded from BioGRID. Using our approach, we predict 251 interactions in the human PPI network, a statistically significant fraction ofwhich correspond to protein pairs sharing common GO terms. Moreover, we validate a statistically significant portion of our predicted interactions in the HPRD database and the newer release of BioGRID. The data and Matlab code implementing the methods are freely available from the web site: http://www.kuchaev.com/Denoising.	usa	Public Library of Science	2009	1.01	PLoS computational biology	5.759	2.133
1024345665	Topological network alignment uncovers biological function and phylogeny	Sequence comparison and alignment has had an enormous impact on our understanding of evolution, biology and disease. Comparison and alignment of biological networks will probably have a similar impact. Existing network alignments use information external to the networks, such as sequence, becauseno good algorithm for purely topological alignment has yet been devised. In this paper, we present a novel algorithm based solely on network topology, that can be used to align any two networks. We apply it to biological networks to produce by far the most complete topological alignmentsof biological networks to date. We demonstrate that both species phylogeny and detailed biological function of individual proteins can be extracted from our alignments. Topology-based alignments have the potential toprovide a completely new, independent source of phylogenetic information. Our alignment of the protein-protein interaction networks of two very different speciesŽyeast and humanŽindicate that even distant species share a surprising amount of network topology, suggesting broad similarities in internal cellular wiring across all life on Earth.	gbr	The Royal Society	2010	1.01	Journal of the Royal Society interface	4.259	2.124
1024345921	Characterization of cell cycle specific protein interaction networks of the Yeast 26S proteasome complex by the Qtax strategy	Ubiquitin-proteasome dependent protein degradation plays a fundamental role inthe regulation of the eukaryotic cell cycle. Cell cycle transitions between different phases are tightly regulated to prevent uncontrolled cell proliferation, which is characteristic of cancer cells. To understand cell cycle phase specific regulation of the 26S proteasome and reveal the molecularmechanisms underlying the ubiquitin-proteasome degradation pathway during cell cycle progression, we have carried out comprehensive characterization of cell cycle phase specific proteasome interacting proteins (PIPs) by QTAX analysis of synchronized yeast cells. Our efforts have generated specific proteasome interaction networks for the G1, S, and M phasesof the cell cycle and identified a total of 677 PIPs, 266 of which were not previously identified from unsynchronized cells. On the basis of the dynamic changes of their SILAC ratios across the three cell cycle phases, we have employed a profile vector-based clustering approach and identified 20 functionally significant groups of PIPs, 3 of which are enriched with cell cycle related functions. This work presents the first step toward understanding how dynamic proteasome interactions are involved in various cellular pathways during the cell cycle.	usa	American Chemical Society	2010	1.01	Journal of proteome research	5.460	3.135
1024347201	Systems-level cancer gene identification from protein interaction network topology applied to melanogenesis-related functional genomics data	Many real-world phenomena have been described in terms of large networks. Networks have been invaluable models for the understanding of biological systems. Since proteins carry out most biological processes, we focus on analysing protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. Proteins interact to perform a function. Thus, PPI networks reflect the interconnected nature of biological processes and analysing their structural properties could provide insights into biological function and disease. We have already demonstrated, by using a sensitive graph theoretic method for comparing topologies of node neighbourhoods called Žgraphlet degree signatures', that proteins with similarsurroundings in PPI networks tend to perform the same functions. Here, we explore whether the involvement of genes in cancer suggests the similarity of their topological Žsignatures' as well. By applying a series of clustering methods to proteins' topological signature similarities, we demonstrate that the obtained clusters are significantly enriched with cancer genes. We apply this methodology to identify novel cancer gene candidates, validating 80 per cent of our predictions in the literature. We also validate predictions biologically by identifying cancer-related negative regulators of melanogenesis identified in our siRNA screen. This is encouraging, since we have done this solely from PPI network topology. We provide clear evidence that PPI network structure around cancer genes is different from the structurearound non-cancer genes. Understanding the underlying principles of this phenomenon is an open question, with a potential for increasing our understanding of complex diseases.	gbr	The Royal Society	2009	1.01	Journal of the Royal Society interface	4.241	2.33
1024347713	Optimized null model for protein structure networks	Much attention has recently been given to the statistical significance of topological features observed in biological networks. Here, we consider residue interaction graphs (RIGs) as network representations of protein structures with residues as nodes and inter-residue interactions as edges. Degree-preserving randomized models have been widely used for this purpose in biomolecular networks. However, such a single summary statistic of a network may not be detailed enough to capture the complex topological characteristics of protein structures and their network counterparts. Here, we investigate a variety of topological properties of RIGs to find a well fitting network null model for them. The RIGs are derived from a structurally diverse protein data set at various distance cut-offs and for different groups of interacting atoms. We compare the network structure of RIGs to several random graph models. We show that 3-dimensional geometric random graphs, that model spatialrelationships between objects, provide the best fit to RIGs. We investigate the relationship between the strength of the fit and various protein structural features. We show that the fit depends on protein size, structural class, and thermostability, but not on quaternary structure. We apply our model to the identification of significantly over-represented structural building blocks, i.e., network motifs, in protein structure networks. As expected, choosing geometric graphs as a null model results in the most specific identification of motifs. Our geometric random graph model may facilitate further graph-based studies of protein conformation space and have important implications for protein structure comparison and prediction. The choice of a well-fitting null model is crucial for finding structural motifs that play an important role in protein folding, stability and function.To our knowledge, this is the first study that addresses the challenge of finding an optimized null model for RIGs, by comparing various RIG definitions against a series of network models.	usa	Public Library of Science	2009	1.01	PloS one	4.351	2.031
1024348481	Fitting a geometric graph to a protein-protein interaction network	Motivation: Finding a good network null model for protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks is a fundamental issue. Such a model would provide insights into the interplay between network structure and biological function as well as into evolution. Also, network (graph) models are used to guide biological experiments and discover new biological features. It has been proposed that geometric random graphs are a good model for PPI networks. In a geometric random graph, nodes correspond to uniformly randomly distributed points in a metric space and edges (links) exist between pairs of nodes for which the corresponding points in the metric space are close enough according to some distance norm. Computational experiments have revealed close matches between key topological properties of PPI networks and geometric random graph models. In this work, we push the comparison further by exploiting the fact that the geometric property can be tested for directly. To this end, we develop an algorithm that takes PPI interaction data and embeds proteins into a low-dimensional Euclidean space, under the premise that connectivity information corresponds to Euclidean proximity, as in geometric-random graphs.We judge the sensitivity and specificity of the fit by computing the area under the Receiver Operator Characteristic (ROC) curve. The network embedding algorithm is based on multi-dimensional scaling, with the square root of the path length in a network playing the role of the Euclidean distance in the Euclidean space. The algorithm exploits sparsity for computational efficiency, and requires only a few sparse matrix multiplications, giving a complexity of O(N2) where N is the number of proteins. Results: The algorithm has been verified in the sense that it successfully rediscovers the geometric structure in artificially constructed geometric networks, even when noise is added by re-wiring some links. Applyingthe algorithm to 19 publicly available PPI networks of various organisms indicated that: (a) geometric effects are present and (b) two-dimensional Euclidean space is generally as effective as higher dimensional Euclidean space for explaining the connectivity. Testing on a high-confidence yeast data set produced a very strong indication of geometric structure (area under the ROC curve of 0.89), with this network being essentially indistinguishable from a noisy geometric network. Overall, the results add support to the hypothesis that PPI networks have a geometric structure.	gbr	Oxford University Press	2008	1.01	Bioinformatics	4.328	2.069
1024348737	GraphCrunch	Background: The recent explosion in biological and other real-world network data has created the need for improved tools for large network analyses. In addition to well established global network properties, several new mathematical techniques for analyzing local structural properties of large networks have been developed. Small over-represented subgraphs, called networkmotifs, have been introduced to identify simple building blocks of complex networks. Small induced subgraphs, called graphlets, have been used todevelop Žnetwork signaturesŽ that summarize network topologies. Based on these network signatures, two new highly sensitive measures of network local structural similarities were designed: the relative graphlet frequency distance (RGF-distance) and the graphlet degree distribution agreement (GDD-agreement). Finding adequate null-models for biological networks is important in many research domains. Network properties are used to assess the fit of network models to the data. Various network models have been proposed. To date, there does not exist a software tool that measures the above mentioned local network properties. Moreover, none of the existing tools compare real-world networks against a series of network models with respect tothese local as well as a multitude of global network properties. Results: Thus, we introduce GraphCrunch, a software tool that finds well-fitting network models by comparing large real-world networks against random graph models according to various network structural similarity measures. It has unique capabilities of finding computationally expensive RGF-distance and GDD-agreement measures. In addition, it computes several standard global network measures and thus supports the largest variety of network measures thus far. Also, it is the first software tool that compares real-world networks against a series of network models and that has built-in parallel computing capabilities allowing for a user specified list of machines on whichto perform compute intensive searches for local network properties. Furthermore, GraphCrunch is easily extendible to include additional network measures and models. Conclusions: GraphCrunch is a software tool that implements the latest research on biological network models and properties: itcompares real-world networks against a series of random graph models with respect to a multitude of local and global network properties. We present GraphCrunch as a comprehensive, parallelizable, and easily extendible softwaretool for analyzing and modeling large biological networks. The software is open-source and freely available at http://www.ics.uci.edu/~bio-nets/graphcrunch/. It runs under Linux, MacOS, andWindows Cygwin. In addition, it has an easy to use on-line web user interface that is available from the above web page.	gbr	BioMed Central	2008	1.01	BMC bioinformatics	3.781	2.069
1024348993	Not all scale-free networks are born equal	The interactions among proteins in an organism can be represented as a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, where each protein is represented with a node, and each interaction is represented with an edge between two nodes. As PPI networks of several model organisms become available, their topological features attract considerable attention. It is believed that the available PPI networks are (1) ŽŽsmall-world'' networks, and (2) their degree distribution is in the form of a ŽŽpower law.'' In other words, (1) it is possible to reach from a protein to any other protein in only a small (approximately six) number of hops, and (2) although most proteins have only afew interactions (one or two), there are a few proteins with many more interactions (200 or more) and that act as ŽŽhubs.'' It has thus been temptingto develop simple mathematical network generators with topological features similar to those of the available PPI networks. One such model, the ŽŽduplication model,'' is based on Ohno's model of genome growth. It starts with a small ŽŽseed network'' and grows by ŽŽduplicating'' one of the existingnodes at a time, with an identical set of interactions; a randomly selected subset of these interactions is then deleted, and a few new interactions are added at random. It has been mathematically proven that the duplication model provides a small-world network and also has a power-law degree distribution. What we show in this paper is that by choosing the ŽŽright'' seed network, many other topological features of the available PPI networks can be captured by the duplication model. The right seed network in this case turns out to include two sizable ŽŽcliques'' (subnetworks where all node pairs are connected) with many interactions in between. In this paper, wealso consider the preferential attachment model, which again grows by addingto a seed network one node at a time and connecting the new node to every other node with probability proportional to the existing degree of the second node. Because the preferential attachment model also provides a small-world network and has a power-law degree distribution, it has been considered equivalent to the duplication model. We show that the two models are vastly different in terms of other topological features we consider, and the preferential attachment model cannot capture some key features of the available PPI networks.	usa	Public Library of Science	2007	1.01	PLoS computational biology	6.236	1.826
1024349249	Biological network comparison using graphlet degree distribution	Motivation: Analogous to biological sequence comparison, comparing cellular networks is an important problem that could provide insight into biological understanding and therapeutics. For technical reasons, comparing large networks is computationally infeasible, and thus heuristics, such as the degree distribution, clustering coefficient, diameter, and relative graphlet frequency distribution have been sought. It is easy to demonstrate that two networks are different by simply showing a short list of properties in which they differ. It is much harder to show that two networks are similar, as it requires demonstrating their similarity in all of their exponentially many properties. Clearly, it is computationally prohibitive to analyze all network properties, but the larger the number of constraints we impose in determining network similarity, the more likely it is that the networks will truly be similar. Results: We introduce a new systematic measure of a network's local structure that imposes a large number of similarity constraints on networks being compared. In particular, we generalize the degree distribution, which measures the number of nodes Žtouching' k edges, into distributions measuring the number of nodes Žtouching' k graphlets, where graphlets are small connected non-isomorphic subgraphs of a large network. Our new measure of network local structure consists of 73 graphlet degree distributions of graphlets with 2-5 nodes, but it is easily extendible to a greater number of constraints (i.e. graphlets), if necessary, and the extensions are limited only by the available CPU. Furthermore, we show a way to combine the 73 graphlet degree distributions into a network Žagreement' measure which is a number between 0 and 1, where 1 means that networks have identical distributions and 0 means that they are far apart. Based on this new network agreement measure, we show that almost all of the 14 eukaryotic PPI networks, including human, resulting from various high-throughput experimental techniques, as well as from curated databases, are better modeled by geometricrandom graphs than by Erdös-Rény, random scale-free, or Barabási-Albert scale-free networks.	gbr	Oxford University Press	2007	1.01	Bioinformatics	5.039	0.98
1024349505	Modelling protein-protein interaction networks via a stickiness index	What type of connectivity structure are we seeing in protein-protein interaction networks? A number of random graph models have been mooted. After fitting model parameters to real data, the models can be judged by their success in reproducing key network properties. Here, we propose a very simple random graph model that inserts a connection according to the degree, or Žstickiness', of the two proteins involved. This model can be regarded as a testable distillation of more sophisticated versions that attempt to account for the presence of interaction surfaces or binding domains. By computing a range of network similarity measures, including relative graphlet frequency distance, we find that our model outperforms other random graph classes. In particular, we show that given the underlying degree information, fitting a stickiness model produces better results than simply choosing a degree-matching graph uniformly at random. Therefore, the results lend supportto the basic modelling methodology.	gbr	The Royal Society	2006	1.01	Journal of the Royal Society interface	0.930	1.905
1024349761	Efficient estimation of graphlet frequency distributions in protein-protein interaction networks	Motivation: Algorithmic and modeling advances in the area of protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis could contribute to the understanding of biological processes. Local structure of networks can be measured by the frequency distribution of graphlets, small connected non-isomorphic induced subgraphs. This measure of local structure has been used to show that high-confidence PPI networks have local structure of geometric random graphs. Finding graphlets exhaustively in a large network is computationally intensive. More complete PPI networks, as well as PPI networks of higher organisms, will thus require efficient heuristic approaches. Results: We propose two efficient and scalable heuristics for finding graphlets in high-confidence PPI networks.We show that both PPI and their model geometric random networks, have defined boundaries that are sparser than the Žinner parts' of the networks. In addition, these networks exhibit Žuniformity' of local structure inside the networks. Our first heuristic exploits these two structural properties of PPI and geometric random networks to find good estimates of graphlet frequency distributions in these networks up to 690 times faster than the exhaustive searches. Our second heuristic is a variant of a more standard sampling technique and it produces accurate approximate results up to 377 times faster than the exhaustive searches.Weindicate how thecombination of these approaches may result in an even better heuristic.	gbr	Oxford University Press	2006	1.01	Bioinformatics	4.894	0.972
1024350017	2-Tree probe interval graphs have a large obstruction set	Probe interval graphs (PIGs) are used as a generalization of interval graphs in physical mapping of DNA. G=(V ,E) is a probe interval graph (PIG) with respect to a partition (P,N) of V if vertices of G correspond to intervals on a real line and two vertices are adjacent if and only if their corresponding intervals intersect and at least one of them is in P; vertices belonging to P are called probes and vertices belonging to N are called non-probes. One common approach to studying the structure of a new family of graphs is to determine if there is a concise family of forbidden induced subgraphs. It has been shown that there are two forbidden induced subgraphs that characterize tree PIGs. In this paper we show that having a concise forbidden induced subgraph characterization does not extend to 2-tree PIGs; in particular, we show that there are at least 62 minimal forbidden induced subgraphs for 2-treePIGs.	nld	North-Holland	2005	1.01	Discrete Applied Mathematics	0.585	0.781
1024350273	Modeling interactome	Motivation: Networks have been used to model many realworld phenomena to better understand the phenomena and to guide experiments in order to predict their behavior. Since incorrect models lead to incorrect predictions, it is vital to have as accurate a model as possible. As a result, new techniques andmodels for analyzing and modeling real-world networks have recently been introduced. Results: One example of large and complex networks involves protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. We analyze PPI networks of yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster using a newly introduced measure of local network structure as well as the standardly used measures of global network structure. We examine the fit of four different network models, including Erdös-Rényi, scale-free and geometric random networkmodels, to these PPI networks with respect to the measures of local andglobal network structure. We demonstrate that the currently accepted scale-free model of PPI networks fails to fit the data in several respects andshow that a random geometric model provides a much more accurate model of the PPI data. We hypothesize that only the noise in these networks is scale-free. Conclusions: We systematically evaluate how well-different networkmodels fit the PPI networks. We show that the structure of PPI networksis better modeled by a geometric random graph than by a scale-free model.	gbr	Oxford University Press	2004	1.01	Bioinformatics	5.742	0.91
1024350529	Protein complex prediction via cost-based clustering	Motivation: Understanding principles of cellular organization and function canbe enhanced if we detect known and predict still undiscovered protein complexes within the cell's protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. Such predictions may be used as an inexpensive tool to direct biological experiments. The increasing amount of available PPI data necessitates an accurate and scalable approach to protein complex identification. Results: We have developed the Restricted Neighborhood Search Clustering Algorithm (RNSC) to efficiently partition networks into clusters using a cost function. We applied this cost-based clustering algorithm to PPI networks of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans to identify andpredict protein complexes. We have determined functional and graph-theoretic properties of true protein complexes from the MIPS database. Based on these properties, we defined filters to distinguish between identified network clusters and true protein complexes. Conclusions: Our application of the cost-based clustering algorithm provides an accurate and scalable method of detecting and predicting protein complexes within a PPI network. Availability: The RNSC algorithm and data processing code are available upon request from the authors.	gbr	Oxford University Press	2004	1.01	Bioinformatics	5.742	0.91
1024350785	Functional topology in a network of protein interactions	Motivation: The building blocks of biological networks are individual protein-protein interactions (PPIs). The cumulative PPI data set in Saccharomyces cerevisiae now exceeds 78 000. Studying the network of these interactions will provide valuable insight into the inner workings of cells. Results:We performed a systematic graph theory-based analysis of this PPI network to construct computational models for describing and predicting the properties of lethal mutations and proteins participating in genetic interactions, functional groups, protein complexes and signaling pathways. Ouranalysis suggests that lethal mutations are not only highly connected within the network, but they also satisfy an additional property: their removal causes a disruption in network structure. We also provide evidence forthe existence of alternate paths that bypass viable proteins in PPI networks, while such paths do not exist for lethal mutations. In addition, we show that distinct functional classes of proteins have differing network properties.We also demonstrate a way to extract and iteratively predict protein complexes and signaling pathways. We evaluate the power of predictionsby comparing them with a random model, and assess accuracy of predictions by analyzing their overlap with MIPS database. Conclusions: Our models provide a means for understanding the complex wiring underlying cellular function, and enable us to predict essentiality, genetic interaction,function, protein complexes and cellular pathways. This analysis uncovers structure-function relationships observable in a large PPI network.	gbr	Oxford University Press	2004	1.01	Bioinformatics	5.742	0.91
1024351041	Hereditary dominating pair graphs	An asteroidal triple (AT) is a set of vertices such that each pair of verticesis joined bya path that avoids the neighborhood of the third. EveryAT-free graph contains a dominating pair, a pair of vertices such that for everypath between them, everyvertex of the graph is within distance one ofthe path. We saythat a graph is a hereditary dominating pair (HDP) graph if each of its connected induced subgraphs contains a dominating pair. In this paper we introduce the notion of frame HDP graphs in order to capture the structure of HDP graphs that contain asteroidal triples. We also determine themaximum diameter of frame HDP graphs.	nld	North-Holland	2004	1.01	Discrete Applied Mathematics	0.557	0.698
1024359764	Hamilton cycle and Hamilton path extendability of Cayley graphs on abelian groups	In this paper the concepts of Hamilton cycle (HC) and Hamilton path (HP) extendability are introduced. A connected graph ?$\Gamma$? is ?$n$?-HC-extendable if it contains a path of length ?$n$? and if every such path is contained in some Hamilton cycle of ?$\Gamma$?. Similarly, ?$\Gamma$? is weakly ?$n$?-HP-extendable if it contains a path of length ?$n$? and if every such path is contained in some Hamilton path of ?$\Gamma$?. Moreover, ?$\Gamma$? is strongly ?$n$?-HP-extendable if it contains a path of length ?$n$? and if for every such path $P$ there is a Hamilton path of ?$\Gamma$? starting with ?$P$?. These concepts are then studied for the class of connected Cayley graphs on abelian groups. It is proved that every connected Cayley graph on an abelian group of order at least three is 2-HC-extendable and a complete classification of 3-HC-extendable connected Cayley graphs of abelian groups is obtained. Moreover, it is proved that every connected Cayley graph on an abelian group of order at least five is weakly 4-HP-extendable.	usa	John Wiley	2012	1.01	Journal of graph theory	0.524	0.677
1024369	The basis of the synovial fluid analysis	Synovial fluid fills the spaces in the joint cavities. Many diseases can affect the joints and frequently only a direct examination of the tissue or synovial fluid will yield the correct diagnosis. The article presents the basis of the synovial fluid analysis and a relevant decision-making scheme. The reliability and applicability of synovial fluid tests are commented upon. The synovial fluid analysis undoubtedly plays an important role in the management of patients with joint diseases. Due to a lack of interlaboratory comparisons, and therefore expert opinions on the interpretation of results, this knowledge and the acquisition of relevant experience should be encouragedto enable evaluation of the clinical applicability of recent discoveries in synovial fluid pathology.	deu	Walter de Gruyter	2001	1.02	Clinical chemistry and laboratory medicine	1.595	3.214
1024369492	Decomposition of skew-morphisms of cyclic groups	A skew-morphism of a group ?$H$? is a permutation ?$\sigma$? of its elements fixing the identity such that for every ?$x, y \in H$? there exists an integer ?$k$? such that ?$\sigma (xy) = \sigma (x)\sigma k(y)$?. It follows that group automorphisms are particular skew-morphisms. Skew-morphisms appear naturally in investigations of maps on surfaces with high degree of symmetry, namely, they are closely related to regular Cayley maps and to regular embeddings of the complete bipartite graphs. The aim of this paper is to investigate skew-morphisms of cyclic groups in the context of the associated Schur rings. We prove the following decomposition theorem about skew-morphisms of cyclic groups ?$\mathbb Z_n$?: if ?$n = n_{1}n_{2}$? such that ?$(n_{1}n_{2}) = 1$?, and ?$(n_{1}, \varphi (n_{2})) = (\varphi (n_{1}), n_{2}) = 1$? (?$\varphi$? denotes Euler's function) then all skew-morphisms ?$\sigma$? of ?$\mathbb Z_n$? are obtained as ?$\sigma = \sigma_1 \times \sigma_2$?, where ?$\sigma_i$? are skew-morphisms of ?$\mathbb Z_{n_i}, \; i = 1, 2$?. As a consequence we obtain the following result: All skew-morphisms of ?$\mathbb Z_n$? are automorphisms of ?$\mathbb Z_n$? if and only if ?$n = 4$? or ?$(n, \varphi(n)) = 1$?.	svn	Društvo matematikov, fizikov in astronomov	2011	1.01	Ars mathematica contemporanea	0.400	0.677
1024369748	On the connectivity of bipartite distance-balanced graphs	A connected graph ?$\varGamma$? is said to be distance-balanced whenever for any pair of adjacent vertices ?$u,v$? of ?$\varGamma$? the number of vertices closer to ?$u$? than to ?$v$? is equal to the number of vertices closer to ?$v$? than to ?$u$?. In [K. Handa, Bipartite graphs with balanced ?$(a,b)$?-partitions, Ars Combin. 51 (1999), 113-119] Handa asked whether every bipartite distance-balanced graph, that is not a cycle, is 3-connected. In this paper the Handa question is answered in the negative. Moreover, we show that a minimal bipartite distance-balanced graph, that is not a cycle and is not 3-connected, has 18 vertices and is unique. In addition, we give a complete classification of non-3-connected bipartite distance-balanced graphs for which the minimal distance between two vertices in a 2-cut is three. All such graphs are regular and for each ?$k \geq 3$? there exists an infinite family of such graphs which are ?$k$?-regular.Furthermore, we determine a number of structural properties that a bipartite distance-balanced graph, which is not 3-connected, must have. As an application, we give a positive answer to the Handa question for the subfamily of bipartite strongly distance-balanced graphs.	gbr	Academic Press	2012	1.01	European journal of combinatorics	0.677	0.677
1024371028	Hamiltonian cycles in Cayley graphs whose order has few prime factors	We prove that if Cay?$(G; S)$? is a connected Cayley graph with ?$n$? vertices, and the prime factorization of ?$n$? is very small, then Cay?$(G; S)$? has a hamiltonian cycle. More precisely, if ?$p$?, ?$q$?, and ?$r$? are distinct primes, then ?$n$? can be of the form kp with ?$24 \ne k < 32$?, or of the form ?$kpq$? with ?$k \le 5$?, or of the form ?$pqr$?, or of the form ?$kp^2$? with ?$k \le 4$?, or of the form ?$kp^3$? with ?$k \le 2$?.	svn	Društvo matematikov, fizikov in astronomov	2012	1.01	Ars mathematica contemporanea	0.400	0.677
1024376404	Adjacency preservers, symmetric matrices, and cores	It is shown that the graph ?$\Gamma_n$? that has the set of all ?$n \times n$? symmetric matrices over a finite field as the vertex set, with two matrices being adjacent if and only if the rank of their difference equals one, is a core if ?$n \ge 3$?. Eigenvalues of the graph ?$\Gamma_n$? are calculated as well.	usa	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2012	1.01	Journal of algebraic combinatorics	0.752	0.677
1024390740	Hamilton cycles in (2, odd, 3)-Cayley graphs	In 1969, Lovász asked if every finite, connected vertex-transitive graph has a Hamilton path. In spite of its easy formulation, no major breakthrough has been achieved thus far, and the problem is now commonly accepted to be very hard. The same holds for the special subclass of Cayley graphs where the existence of Hamilton cycles has been conjectured. In 2007, Glover and Marušiè proved that a cubic Cayley graph on a finite ?$(2, s, 3)$?-generated group ?$G = \langle a, x| a^2 = x^s = (ax)^3 = 1, \dots \rangle$? has a Hamilton path when ?$|G|$? is congruent to 0 modulo 4, and has a Hamilton cycle when ?$|G|$? is congruent to 2 modulo 4. The Hamilton cycle was constructed, combining the theory of Cayley maps with classical results on cyclic stability in cubic graphs, as the contractible boundary of a tree of faces in the corresponding Cayley map. With a generalization of these methods, Glover, Kutnar and Marušiè in 2009 resolved the case when, apart from ?$|G|$?, also ?$s$? is congruent to 0 modulo 4. In this article, with a further extension of the above ""tree of faces"" approach, a Hamilton cycle is shown to exist whenever ?$|G|$? is congruent to 0 modulo 4 and s is odd. This leaves ?$|G|$? congruent to 0 modulo 4 with s congruent to 2 modulo 4 as the only remaining open case. In this last case, however, the ""tree of faces"" approach cannot be applied, and so entirely different techniques will have to be introduced if one is to complete the proof of the existence of Hamilton cycles in cubic Cayley graphs arising from finite ?$(2, s, 3)$?-generated groups.	gbr	Clarendon Press	2012	1.01	Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society	1.324	0.677
1024409428	Hamilton paths in vertex-transitive graphs of order 10p	It is shown that every connected vertex-transitive graph of order ?$10p$?, ?$p \ne 7$? a prime, which is not isomorphic to a quasiprimitive graph arising from the action of PSL?$(2,k)$? on cosets of ?$\mathbb{Z}_k \times \mathbb{Z}_{(k-1)/10}$?, contains a Hamilton path.	gbr	Academic Press	2012	1.01	European journal of combinatorics	0.677	0.677
1024439361	Regional systems of innovations as social fields	The world today is subject to ambiguous, complex and mutually reinforcing global trends. The same could be said for the adaptations of social settings to these global trends. As a consequence, societies attempt to develop variousincreasingly sophisticated and complex systems of innovations, with allits material, social and cognitive consequences. In this article we consider systems of innovations as special type of social fields influenced bythree social forces: institutions, networks and cognitive frames. Through the fuzzy-set analysis, we are examining whether these are necessary and sufficient conditions of successful adaptation to global trends via increasinginnovative performance. We need a combination of at least two, but best if three, social forces to structure the social field in order to exhibitpositive adaptation to global trends. This implies that the ability of social settings to meet challenges posed by global trends can indeed be a subject of rational action.	hrv	Institut za društvena istraživanja	2011	1.01	Sociologija i prostor	0.000	0.924
1024452929	Genéza koncepcie good governance a jej kritické prehodnotenie v teoretickej perspektíve	Good governance concept is currently one of the most often implemented concepts which is aimed at the improvement of public administration. It is implemented especially in those countries considering themselves democratic ones but its partial implementation is evident in almost entire world. This phenomenon is actually a cause of pressure from various trans- and international subjects (including the World Bank, United Nations, International Monetary Fund, Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development or European Union), which determine their support by good governance implementation or by implementation of some of its elements. In spite of this, it is vague and unclear concept from some perspectives and it evokes many questions on both a side of practitioners and a side of various scholars. A main objective of this article is linked to it. Author points out development of the concept, and consequently he selects critical approaches orcomments and through them points out those weaknesses or unclearness which are associated with the concept.	svk	Vydavateåstvo Slovenskej akadémie vied	2010	1.01	Ekonomický èasopis	0.289	1.022
1024464705	Assessment of municipalities'performances in Slovenia	Due to the ongoing public administration reform process in Slovenia, different models for assessing performance of different levels of public administration, including municipalities, are introduced. However, no stable and systematically model, that could be used for systematic evaluation of municipalities performance was developed so far. Due to this reason, the evaluation model called ALENKA was developed. Results are showing that municipalities with different backgrounds can be compared and ranked according to their performance on the basis of this model.	rou	Faculty of Political Sciences, Public Administration and Communication	2012	1.01	Transylvanian review of administrative sciences	0.284	0.788
1024467777	Evidence for network evolution in an Arabidopsis interactome map	Plants have unique features that evolved in response to their environments andecosystems. A full account of the complex cellular networks that underlie plant-specific functions is still missing. We describe a proteome-wide binary protein-protein interaction map for the interactome network of the plant Arabidopsis thaliana containing about 6200 highly reliable interactions between about 2700 proteins. A global organization of plant biological processes emerges from community analyses of the resulting network, together with large numbers of novel hypothetical functional links between proteins andpathways. We observe a dynamic rewiring of interactions following gene duplication events, providing evidence for a model of evolution acting upon interactome networks. This and future plant interactome maps should facilitatesystems approaches to better understand plant biology and improve crops.	usa	American Association for the Advancement of Science	2011	1.01	Science	31.201	2.355
1024474177	The impact of conservative discourses in family policies, population politics, and gender rights in Poland and Turkey	This article uses childcare as a case study to test the impact of ideas that embody a traditional understanding of gender relations in relation to childcare. Conservative ideas regard increasing female labor market participation as a cause of decreasing fertility on the functioning of a set of general policies to increase fertility rates. It looks into the Polish and Turkish contexts for empirical evidence. The Polish context shows a highly institutionalized system of family policies in contrast to almost unessential institutions in Turkey. Formally, the labor market participation of women is much lower in Turkey than in Poland. Yet, given the size of the informal market in Turkey, women's labor participation is obviously higher than what appears in the statistics. Bearing in mind this divergence, the article suggests Poland and Turkey as two typologies for studying population politics in contexts where socially conservative ideas regarding gender remain paramount. We qualify ideas as conservative if they enforce a traditional understanding of gender relations in care-giving and underline women's role inthe labor market as an element of declining fertility. In order to delineateideational impact, this article looks into how ideas (a) supplant and(b) substitute formal institutions. Therefore, we argue that there are two mechanisms pertaining to the dominance of conservative conventions: conservative ideas may either supplant the institutional impact on family policies, or substitute them thanks to a superior reasoning which societies assign to them. Furthermore, conservative conventions prevail alongside women's customary unpaid work as care-givers regardless of the level of their formal workforce participation. We propose as our major findings for the literature of population politics that ideas, as ubiquitous belief systems, are more powerful than institutions since they provide what is perceived as legitimate, acceptable, and good for the societies under study. In the end, irrespective of the presence of institutions, socially conservative ideas prevail.	gbr	Oxford University Press	2011	1.01	Social politics	1.077	0.66
1024474689	Reversing the wave	This article takes the conservative shift in Polish politics under PiS as an example and argues that the failure of the liberal economy could end up reversing the fast-forward wave in human rights. And because Poland is a relatively new member of the EU, the article also develops the argument that such a reversal in the new member countries could make the European Union's (EU) acquis irrelevant for further democratisation. Therefore, the article fi rst explains how the failure of the economic liberalism of the neo-liberal market economy paves the way for the success of conservative political parties. It then raises the question of why political liberalism, promoted by the EU's human rights acquis, is also a target for the opponents of the marketeconomy. The article concludes with a discussion of current Polish politics in the aftermath of the October 2007 elections.	cze	Academia	2009	1.01	Sociologický èasopis	0.562	0.891
1024480833	Quality of governance in ""Old"" and ""New"" EU member states in a comparative perspective	A question arises whether the quality of governance of the ""old"" EU member states is greater than that of the ""new"" ones. Intuitively speaking, ""old"" member states should fare much better. In the article, a measure of the quality of governance is presented, based on the World Bank's Worldwide Governance Indicators (WGI) for 1996, 2003 and 2010. According to the authors,the quality of governance consists of three components: system persistence, inclusiveness and effectiveness. Findings indicate that most of the ""old"" EU member states perform much better with respect to the quality of governance compared to their ""new"" counterparts. Further, the relationship between the quality of governance and some aspects of socio-economic development is examined. In this regard, a strong correlation between most of the elements under consideration is detected. In conclusion, the authors assume that if the EU chooses not to elicit a higher quality of governance of its member states, it is destined to become a melee of states characterised byenormously different levels of democratic potential. As a consequence, inevitably, a question will arise as to the sustainability and sense of purpose of its very existence.	svk	Slovak Academic Press	2012	1.01	Sociológia	0.191	0.924
10248731	Computer simulation of anisotropic polymer brushes	A polymer brush with chains consisting of anisotropic monomers, in a liquid consisting of free spherical particles, is studied by the molecular dynamics method. It is shown that, at some value of the concentration of spheres, a liquid-crystal or oriented-domain transition occurs in the brush. A densely-grafted brush and a sparsely-grafted brush are studiedè for this system, the transition point seems not to depend strongly upon the grafting density. In the case of the densely-grafted brush, a liquid-crystal transitionproceeds via an intermediate microphase segregated state. One microphase, located near the grafting surface, is characterized by high density and high degree of ordering of monomers. This part of the brush contains only a small concentration of spheres. On the periphery of the brush,a disordered microphase with low monomer density is located. This part of the brush is enriched with spherical particles. The two microphases are separated by a well-defined boundary. On increasing the sphere concentration, the boundary between microphases shifts towards the periphery, and eventually the ordered microphase extends through the whole brush volume. The monomers ofthe densely-grafted brush in their ordered state form different structures, namely, a smectic structure at relatively low values of sphere concentration, and a structure of orientationally ordered domains at the higher sphere densities.	gbr	Royal Society of Chemistry	2008	1.01	Soft matter	4.586	1.953
10250268	The Dialectical Systems Theory's Capacity for Multi-Criteria Decision-Making	The article introduces the Quantified Dialectical Systems Theory, which is one of the cases of new systems theories. It arises from the need for the appropriate knowledge about the basics of both systems theory and the applied computer supported qualitative and quantitative methods that can help individuals or groups in researching important complex decision-making problems; among them we emphasize the multi-criteria decision-making (MCDM) ones. Moreover, the article presents the framework procedure for MCDM, based on assigning weights, which we developed by following the original procedures of several MCDM methods, adapted mainly by the conclusions of experts in practice regarding the suitability of different multi-criteria methods, and own experience. We demonstrate how the Dialectical Systems Theory's (DST's) guidelines defining the subjective starting points can be followed when approaching MCDM problems step-by-step, as well as the DST's guidelines concerning implementation of starting points. In the efforts to support creating and decision-making it helps a lot, if the application of theory can take place in an informal style. This article introduces ways of incorporation of informal systemic thinking and the DST's guidelines in the framework procedure for MCDM when solving several real-life complex problems, presented by example cases.	gbr	John Wiley & Sons	2010	1.01	Systems research and behavioral science	0.706	0.809
10259222	When and how to develop domain-specific language	Domain-specific languages (DSLs) are languages tailored to a specific application domain. They ofter substantial gains in expressiveness and ease of use compared with general-purpose programming languages in their domain of application. DSL development is hard, requiring both domain knowledge and language development expertise. Few people have both. Not surprisingly, the decision to develop a DSL is often postponed indefinitely, if considered at all, and most DSLs never get beyond the application library stage.Although many articles have been written on the development of particular DSLs, there is very limited literature on DSL development methodologies and many questions remain regarding when and how to develop a DSL. To aid the DSL developer, we identify patterns in the decision, analysis, design, and implementation phases of DSL development. Our patterns improve and extend earlier work on DSL design patterns. We also discuss domain analysis tools and language development systems that may help to speed up DSL development. Finally, we present a number of open problems.	usa	Association for Computing Machinery	2005	1.01	ACM computing surveys	7.400	1.183
10263830	Improved method for shot particle velocity measurement within a shotblasting chamber	This paper presents the application of two axially-spaced impact detecting sensors for correlation-based shot velocity measurement. The sensors were placed directly into the flow of shot particles for sensing the particles' impact. The implementation of cross-correlation for phase shift determination, however, was not an easy task. Several extensive improvements were necessary, before the original measurement system, already presented in this journal in December 2003, was capable of reliable velocity measurements. This paper presents the development of the system and optimisation of its components. The construction of a sensor built from a small microphone encapsulated in a metal housing and placed under a protective shield was optimised for a high ratio of frontal to side impact signal alteration. High vibration damping was also necessary. It was achieved by the combination of a well-weighted design for supporting elements and by a careful selection of used materials. These measures improved the similarity of the signals generated by the particlesæ impact, significantly, and allowed the use of cross-correlation. The accuracy of the obtained results increased drastically by the application of cross-correlation, signal filtering was unnecessary and the signal processing was much faster.	gbr	Butterworth	2006	1.01	Flow measurement and instrumentation	0.600	0.741
10266139	The influence of inertial loading on color gamut properties of a TFT LCD display	The article presents the results of an experiment where a 7 in. TFT LCD display was exposed to harmonic vibration with acceleration amplitudes up to 200 m/s2 and frequency sweep in the range between 40 Hz and 1.5 kHz. The display was mounted on a shaker in three different positions: landscape, portrait, and face-up. Colorimetric measurements were taken during and after the loading. Euclidian distance in the CIE Lab color space was used as measureof color change due to the loading. The results show that color gamut tends to narrow when increasing the acceleration amplitude. In practical terms however the color change is barely perceptible. In most cases the color changes disappear within 5 h after the stop of the loading. Micro- and macroscopic examination of the LCD was performed to establish an indication ofthe cause of color change.	gbr	IPC Science and Technology Press	2008	1.01	Displays	1.768	1.318
10266390	Use of an optimization algorithm in designing medium-voltage switchgear insulation elements	Modem design of medium-voltage switchgear insulation elements is based upon the use of optimization methods. The paper presents an algorithm for the design of such elements using numerical calculations on the basis of the finite elements method in connection with evolution optimization methods. The use of differential evolution (DE) and evolution strategy (ES) algorithms is presented in the case of modeling a medium-voltage post insulator, the secondary function of which is voltage indication. A comparison between these two algorithms is also presented. The task of both optimization algorithms is to find an adequate capacitance of the voltage divider and the optimal distribution of electric field strength. All other requirements and constraints that have to be taken into consideration in the design of insulation elements are also included in the algorithm.	usa	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2006	1.01	IEEE transactions on magnetics	0.938	0.942
10270297	Analytic discs in the polynomial hull of a disc fibration over the sphere	It is shown that for each point ?$p$? in the interior of the polynomial hull of a disc fibration ?$X$? over the unit sphere ?$\partial B^n$? there exist an ?$H^\infty$? analytic disc with boundary in ?$X$? and passing through ?$p$?.	aus	The University of Queensland Press	2000	1.01	Bulletin of the Australian Mathematical Society	0.257	0.495
1027441	A general synthetic approach to novel conformationally restricted arginine side chain mimetics	A general synthesis of several novel partially saturated, conformationally restricted heterobicyclic arginine side chain mimetics is described. These compounds are interesting peptidomimetic building blocks for incorporation into trypsin-like serine protease inhibitors.	nld	Pergamon Press	2002	1.01	Tetrahedron	2.420	1.795
10277209	Discs in Stein manifolds	Let ?$\Delta$? be the open unit disc in ?$\Cc$?. We prove the following theorem: Let ?$M$? be a Stein manifold, ?${\rm dim}M \ge 2$?. Given a point ?$p \in M$? and a vector ?$X$? tangent to ?$M$? at ?$p$? there is a proper holomorphic map ?$f: \Delta \to M$? such that ?$f(0) = p$? and such that ?$f'(0) = \lambda M$? for some ?$\lambda > 0$?. This has been known in the special case when ?$M$? is a bounded domain in ?$\Cc^N$? with boundary of class ?${\cal C}^2$?. It was proved (F. Forstneriè and J. Globevnik, 1992) by using the fact that for such domains there are bounded strictly plurisubharmonic exhaustion functions without critical points near the boundary.	usa	Dept. of Mathematics, Indiana University	2000	1.01	Indiana University mathematics journal	0.534	0.495
10277465	Tight distance-regular graphs	We consider a distance-regular graph ?$\Gamma$? with diameter ?$d \ge 3$? and eigenvalues ?$k = \theta_0 > \theta_1 >...> \theta_d$?. We show the intersection numbers ?$a_1,b_1$? satisfy ?$$(\theta_1 + \frac{k}{a_1+1}) (\theta_d +\frac{k}{a_1+1} \ge -\frac{ka_1b_1}{(a_1+1)^2}$$?. We say ?$\Gamma$? is tight whenewer ?$\Gamma$? is not bipartite, and equality holds above. We characterize the tight property in a number of ways. For example, we show ?$\Gamma$? is tight if and only if the intersection numbers are given by certain rational expressions involving ?$d$? independent parameters. We show ?$\Gamma$? is tight if and only if ?$a_1 \ne 0$?, ?$a_d=0$?, and ?$\Gamma$? is 1-homogeneous in the sense of Namura. We show ?$\Gamma$? is tight if and only if each local graph is connected strongly-regular, with nontrivial eigenvalues ?$-1-b_1(1+\theta_1)^{-1}$? and ?$-1-b_1(1+\theta_d)^{-1}$?. Three infinite families and nine sporadic examples of tight distance-regular graphs are given.	usa	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2000	1.01	Journal of algebraic combinatorics	0.642	0.495
10278489	A note on adjacency-transitivity of a graph and its complement	We give a necessary and sufficient condition for a graphical regular representation to be adjacency-transitive, and provide an infinite family of finite simple undirect vertex-transitive graphs ?$\Gamma$?, such that neither ?$\Gamma$? nor ?$\Gamma^c$? is adjacency transitive.	jpn	Springer-Verlag	2000	1.01	Graphs and combinatorics	0.085	0.495
10285590	Thermal-electromagnetic coupling in the finite-element simulation of power transformers	A finite element method is presented to compute the electromagnetic field and hence the temperature rise in complex three-dimensional structures such as power transformers. The temperature dependence of both the heat transfer coefficients and the electric conductivity is taken into account establishing a strong coupling between the thermal and electromagnetic equations.	usa	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2006	1.01	IEEE transactions on magnetics	0.938	0.942
10285846	FEM-based design of an induction motor's part winding to reduce the starting current	The goal of this research is designing the part winding of an induction motor in order to reduce the surge currents when starting. The analyzed motor is to be built for special compressor applications; therefore, the standard star-delta windings are inappropriate. Until recently, winding schemes have been chosen using different analytical and experiential criteria. In this paper, a design process is presented based on transient numerical analysis with the rotation of the rotor also taken into consideration. The developed numerical model enables a study of the motor's performance under arbitrary load conditions, and, thus, the entire torque characteristics of the motor can be predicted. Furthermore, the effects of eddy currents in the motor shaft material and their influence on the magnetic field and the motor's performance have been analyzed. The numerical results have been verified by laboratory measurements.	usa	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2006	1.01	IEEE transactions on magnetics	0.938	0.942
10287643	Influence of contact conditions on tribological behaviour of DLC coatings	By providing excellent frictional properties and greatly improving wear resistance of sliding contact surfaces, diamond-like carbon coatings (DLC) offer a great opportunity for improving performance and durability, and reducing frictional losses in many mechanical systems. However, for the successful application of coated machine components, coatings have to perform reliably under dry and oil-lubricated conditions, with the majority of machinecomponents still being oil-lubricated and operating under diverse contact conditions. The aim of the present investigation was to determine the influence of contact conditions on the tribological behaviour of boundary lubricated DLC coatings, when using oils with extreme-pressure (EP) and anti-wear (AW) additives. Tests with ball-bearing steel ball being loaded against DLC coated discs were performed in the contact pressure range of 1.0 to 3.0 GPa, average sliding speeds of 0.01 to 0.15 m/s and at oil temperaturesranging from 20 to 200 °C. While phosphorous-based AW additives had only minor effects, sulphur-based EP additives were found to reduce friction and wear of W-containing DLC coatings. Furthermore, increase in contact pressure or temperature accelerates the process of friction reduction and results in lower friction while increase in sliding speed has the opposite effect.	che		2007	1.01	Surface & coatings technology	1.678	0.946
10290971	Thermal fatigue of materials for die-casting tooling	This research is conducted to study the thermal fatigue resistance of different hot-work tool steels; AISI H11 and H13, special tool steel and 18% Ni maraging steel. The maraging steel is surface cladded by GTA welding to study the thermal fatigue resistance of surface layer. An influence of mechanical and microstructural properties on thermal fatigue resistance is evaluated. An innovative apparatus for thermal fatigue testing is developed tostudy the thermal fatigue resistance. The test specimens are subjected to cyclic heating in bath of molten Aluminum Alloy 226 and cooling in bath of water-based lubricant. They are continuously internally cooled with cold water. The specimens are periodically analyzed after completion of particular number of cycles. The microstructure, hardness profile and the surface cracks developed are analyzed. Temperature transients at different locations of test specimen are measured and used in computation of transient stresses performed by finite elements. The specimens of special geometry are developed using finite element modeling to improve testing efficiency. An optimal set of thermal fatigue testing parameters are developed to establish efficient testing. The influence of thermal loading on tempering of hot work tool steel and on aging of maraging steel claddings during testing is determined. The results showed significant differences in thermal fatigue resistance of tested materials and their heat treatments. The best thermal fatigue resistance achieved special tool steel due to its high thermal stability. The resistance of AISI H11 tool steel is slightly superior to that of maraging steel weld.	nld	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Materials Science & Engineering	1.806	1.953
10296342	Shape optimization of truss-stiffened shell structures with variable thickness	This paper presents an effective approach to shape optimal design of statically loaded elastic shell-like structures. The shape parametrization is based on a design element technique. The chosen design element is a rational Bézier body, enhanced with a smoothly varying scalar field. A body-like designelement makes possible to unify the shape optimization of both pure shells and truss-stiffened shell structures. The scalar field of the design element is obtained by attaching to each control point a scalar quantity, which is an add-on to the position and weight of the control point. This scalar field is linked to the shell thickness distribution, which can be optimized simultaneously with the shape of the shell. For linear and non-linear analysis of shell structures, a reliable 4-node shell finite element formulation is utilized. The presented optimization approach assumes the employment of a gradient-based optimization algorithm and the use of the discrete method of direct differentiation to perform the sensitivity analysis.Four numerical examples of shell and truss-stiffened shell optimization are presented in detail to illustrate the performance of the proposed approach.	usa	North-Holland	2006	1.01	Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering	2.015	0.746
10297372	How beneficial are inward C-B M&A for European countries?	Based on the data obtained by experts in the field, the authors analyse inward Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions (C-B M&A) in European countries in 2004 and 2005. The authors questioned professionals at 91 European business schools dealing with the C-B M&A field. The questionnaire referred to positive effects and risks that inward C-B M&A are reportedly causing in European countries, as well as their treatment in the media and by economic policies. To enable a thorough insight into this process in Europe, the authors tested the differences between industrial European countries and the countries experiencing transition. As expected, the empirical analysis demonstrated differences in C-B M&A's economic effects and treatment between the two groups of countries. However, responses' analysis also pointed to the fact that due to the changes they bring to important sectors of industrial economies, C-B M&A also have transitional impact in those countries.	che	Inderscience Publishers	2010	1.01	European journal of international management	0.220	1.646
10304796	Impact of disturbing factors on cooperation in logistics outsourcing performance	The purpose of this paper is to present the research results of a study conducted in the Slovene logistics market of conflicts and opportunism as disturbing factors while examining their impact on cooperation in logistics outsourcing performance. Relationship variables are proposed that directly or indirectly affect logistics performance and conceptualize the hypotheses based on causal linkages for the constructs. On the basis of extant literature and new argumentations that are derived from in-depth interviews of logistics experts, including providers and customers, the measurement and structural models are empirically analyzed. Existing measurement scales for the constructs are slightly modified for this analysis. Purification testing and measurement for validity and reliability are performed. Multivariate statistical methods are utilized and hypotheses are tested. The results show that conflicts have a significantly negative impact on cooperation between customers and logistics service providers (LSPs), while opportunism does not play an important role in these relationships. The observed antecedents of logistics outsourcing performance in the model account for 58.4% of the variance of the goal achievement and 36.5% of the variance of the exceeded goal.	hrv	Fakultet prometnih znanosti;Fakulteta za pomorstvo in promet;Universita degli studi di Trieste, Istituto per lo studio dei transporti nell'integrazione economica europea;Fakultet za saobraèaj i komunikacije;Fakulta prevadzky a ekonomiky dopravy a spojov;Dopravni fakulta Jana Pernera	2010	1.02	Promet	0.125	0.978
10305052	Competitiveness by requisitely holistic and innovative logistic management	In the age of global expansion of business operations and contemporary way of life the material and information flows in and between different companies are growing rapidly; they are thus becoming more and more difficult to manage. Had business functions in companies been dealt with separately until now (purchase, production, finances, sale, etc.), today the emphasis is placed on their integration due to their interdependence. By studying supply chains inside and between business partners, companies can gain competitive advantage and become more adjustable, taking the increasingly changing market circumstances into account. This enables them to meet consumers' demands and expectations requisitely holistically. Taking all the crucial activities into account, the logistics management plays a key role in the companies facing the challenges of the new millennium. Based on the numerous megatrends, which influence each and every business entity, this article aims to explain the increasing strategic importance of logistics management. The latter may not be dealt with one-sidedly as a cost; moreover, the key aspects such as competitiveness as well as long-term existence of a company must also be considered. Innovation and systemic thinking in it and about it are needed.	hrv	Fakultet prometnih znanosti;Fakulteta za pomorstvo in promet;Universita degli studi di Trieste, Istituto per lo studio dei transporti nell'integrazione economica europea;Fakultet za saobraèaj i komunikacije;Fakulta prevadzky a ekonomiky dopravy a spojov;Dopravni fakulta Jana Pernera	2010	1.02	Promet	0.125	0.978
10310428	The power of market mood - Evidence from an emerging market	This article focuses on investor behavior and, consequently, the mood in the market. By using a selforganizing network we develop a model which tries to capture the market mood and serves as an indicator of the reasonableness of selling or purchasing securities. In this sense, the final result of this model is the same as in the model-type prediction of future stock prices, with the only exception being that one is not required to know the concrete future values of the selected security. This will indirectly support the hypothesis that psychological factors are an important (if not key) market driving force.	nld	Butterworth Scientific	2010	1.01	Economic Modelling	0.601	1.022
1031759	F-like plasmid sequences in enteric bacteria of diverse origin, with implication of horizontal transfer and plasmid host range	Seventy-eight bacterial isolates from human, animal, and plant hosts, representing eight species of the family Enterobacteriaceae, were screened for F-like plasmid sequences. Of the examined human Escherichia coli strains, 28% harbored one or two of the three F-like, RepFI replication regions, while 35% of the examined animal and all phytopathogenic strains harbored RepFIA-specific sequences. Comparative analysis of Salmonella, Shogella, Erwinia, and E. coli plasmid RepFI sequences showed 100% or very high homology, indicating frequent and recent interspecies gene transfer. The high incidence of RepFIA sequences in enteric bacterial species, including Klebsiella and Erwinia, showed that F-like plasmids are successful in avoiding natural barriers to establishment of horizontally transferred DNA and that in the natural environment conjugal transfer is efficient in diverse ecological niches.	usa	Springer-Verlag	2002	1.01	Current microbiology	1.210	2.437
10317832	Influence of an external electric field on structure in surface-stabilized smectic-C chevron cells	We use a Landau-de Gennes model to study the effect of static external electric fields on the director and layer structure and switching in surface stabilized smectic-C cells with uniform chevron structure. We consider uniform switching of the whole cell and find the threshold electric field needed to switch the director from one stable state to the other stable state. The effect of temperature and cell thickness on the value of the threshold electric field is studied. We also find the switching time as a function of the strength of the applied electric field and study the director and layer structure during the switch	usa	American Physical Society	2000	1.01	Physical review	2.142	1.005
10319705	Two relations for median graphs	We generalize the well known relation for trees ?$n - m = 1$? to the class of median graphs in the following way. Denote by ?$q_i$? the number of subgraphs to the hypercube ?$Q_i$? in a median graph. Then, ?$\sum_{i \ge 0}(-1)^{i} q_i = 1$?. We also give an explicit formula for the number of ?$\Theta$?-classes in a median graph as ?$k = -\sum_{i \ge 0}(-1)^{i} iq_i$?.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.301	0.48
10319900	Accounting Aspects of Reporting Business Relationships between Public Enterprises and Municipalities in Slovenia, Individual Comparisons with Italy and Austria, and International Guidlines	Adequate accounting information is the foundation of an efficient public sector. As of 2010, the accounting aspect of business relationships between public enterprises and municipalities in Slovenia had to be redefined due to the abandonment of 'assets under management' reporting. The regulation recommending municipalities to hand over infrastructure to public enterprises in the form of an operating lease has resulted in the need for different accounting information on the part of the municipalities. Regarding the water sector of municipalities in Austria and Italy, the need for more comprehensive accounting information exists as well. Due to the application of New Public Management concepts, many countries have adopted or committed to adopt some variant of accrual accounting also for the public sector. The large-scale adoption of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (the IPSASs) would significantly enhance the international public sector comparability.	svn	Inštitut za lokalno samoupravo in javna naroèila	2010	1.01	Lex localis	0.317	0.759
10319961	On quasiabelian Cayley graphs	Wang and Xu proposed (European J. Combin. 18 (1997) 567-600, Problem 3) to determine those Cayley graphs ?$\Gamma$? of a group ?$G$? satisfying ?${\rm Aut} \Gamma = L(G)R(G)$?, where ?$L(G)$? and ?$R(G)$? denote the left and the right regular representations of ?$G$?. We prove that the equation holds if and only if (1) ?$G \simeq (\ZZ_2)^n$? where ?$n$? is a nonnegative integer different from 2,3,4, and (2) ?$\Gamma$? is a graphical regular representation of ?$G$?.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.301	0.48
10320662	Laminar flow of a shear-thickening fluid in a 90° pipe bend	The non-Newtonian fluid flow in a sharp 90 curved pipe is studied numerically to obtain the pressure loss coefficient prompted by disagreement between the existing empirical correlations and results obtained by computer codes. This disagreement results from presumption of fully developed flow throughout the curvature (correlations) while the actual flow is partially developed for the Newtonian and sharp 90 curved bend non-Newtonian flows, and fully developed for slightly bent 90 curvature non-Newtonian flow. The Quadratic model is employed to accommodate the shear-thickening behavior of an electrostatic ash and water mixture. Numerical results are obtained for different values of Reynolds number. Finally, results for local pressure loss coefficient are compared with values obtained for the Power law rheological model.	nld	North-Holland	2006	1.01	Fluid dynamics research	0.538	1.092
10322203	Influence of the velocity distribution at the inlet boundary on the CFD prediction of local velocity and pressure fields around a hydrofoil	A study of the influence of the inlet boundary condition on simulation resultsis presented. Experimental measurements and simulations of the flow over a hydrofoil in a closed circuit cavitation tunnel were performed. Using the LDA method the velocity profile, 365 mm upstream of the hydrofoil, was measured. PIV method combined with the LIF technique was used for the determination of the velocity field in the vicinity of the hydrofoil. Static pressure at 38 positions on the surface of the hydrofoil was measured. The CFD code Fluent was used for the simulations. A RANS approach with the k-e RNG turbulence model was applied. Two simulations of the fluid flow were performed- one with a uniform (ideal) velocity profile at the inlet of the computational domain and the other with the experimentally determined velocityprofile. The simulation with the ideal boundary condition produced rather poor results with a considerable discrepancy to the experimental measurements. On the other hand the simulation produced more accurate results when the real (measured) boundary condition was used. The influence of the boundary condition could be seen in x- and y-velocity component in the vicinity of the hydrofoil, in cp distribution on the surface of the hydrofoil and in the evolution of the velocity profiles downstream of the inlet.	usa	Elsevier Science Publ.	2008	1.01	ETF science	1.037	0.986
10323289	Magnetic detection of injury-induced ionic currents in bean plants	A superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) multichannel magnetometer we used to measure the temporal and spatial evolution of the magnetic field accompanying stimulation by burning and/or cutting of Vicia faba plants. These magnetic fields are caused by ionic currents that appear after injury in different parts of the plant. All measured V. faba plants responded to the burning stimulation with detectable quasi-d.c. magnetic signals. In order to measure these signals, a suitable modulation had to be used. The covariance method was applied to analyse the measured data. The results demonstrate a dipolar-like magnetic signal, exponentially decreasing in time, above the cutting type of injury. After burning stimulation, the magnetically detected activity was concentrated predominantly above the leaves/petioles and less above the stem. Possible mechanism for this behaviour are suggested. A comparison with previously known electrical measurements of plant injury is given.	deu	Springer	2000	1.01	European biophysics journal	2.188	2.504
10323739	Analysis of wave propagation in fluid-filled viscoelastic pipes	This paper describes the investigation of the propagation wave speed and wave attenuation in viscoelastic fluid-filled pipes. Relatively predictable for metal pipes, these are largely unknown for plastic pipes, since they depend onthe pipe wall properties. Wave number measurements, encompassing both wave speed and wave attenuation, were carried out on different water-filled plastic pipes using three hydrophones. The frequency-dependent wave speed and attenuation were calculated from the transfer function between three pressure measurements. Experimental results for different pipe wall materials, particularly those with applications in water supply installations, are presented. The purpose of this paper is to present a method of analysis in the frequency domain that can be used to determine the acoustical properties of fluid-filled plastic pipes.	gbr	Academic Press	2007	1.01	Mechanical systems and signal processing	1.333	0.706
1032817	A general synthesis of ethyl 4-aminophenyl and ethyl 4-[amino(hydroxyimino)methyl]phenyl phosphonates	Diethyl phosphonates were conveniently converted into ethyl 4-aminophenyl and ethyl 4-[amino(hydroxyimino)methyl]phenyl phosphonates as potentially useful intermediates for the preparation of functionalized phenyl phosphonates.	nld	Pergamon Press	2002	1.01	Tetrahedron letters	2.357	1.795
1033073	The influence of stirring rate on biopharmaceutical properties of Eudragit microspheres	Abstract: Eudragit RS microspheres containing pipemidic acid, as a model drug,were prepared by the solvent evaporation method using an acetone/liquid paraffin solvent system. The aim of the work was to evaluate the influence of stirring rate on the average particle size, particle morphology, drug content and release kinetics, as well as the influence of particle size on microspheremorphology, drug content and release kinetics. Stirring rate has been found to significantly influence the average diameter of microspheres. The average diameter decreases as the stirring rate increases. This can be explained by production of a finer dispersion of droplets when higher stirringrates are applied and, consequently, by the formation of smaller microspheres. With increasing stirring rate and increasing fraction particle size the drug content also increases. It is assumed that this dependence is a consequence of an uneven diffusion of the drug from the inner to the outer emulsion phase, and an uneven encapsulation of drug particles during the preparation. Drug release follows the Higuchi model. As seen from SEM photographs, larger microspheres are more porous and the microspheres producedat higher stirring rates are more porous than those produced at lower stirring rates. This explains the unexpected finding that the release rate increases as the fraction particle size and the stirring rate increase.	gbr	Taylor & Francis	2002	1.01	Journal of microencapsulation	1.024	0.712
10333718	Upper-bound solutions of three-dimensional passive earth pressures	This paper presents a novel approach to the determination of passive soil pressures: using the upper-bound method within the framework of limit analysistheory. It is based on a three-dimensional, kinematically admissible, rotational, hyperbolical failure mechanism. The failure mechanism is composed of the central and two lateral bodies, which are connected by a common velocity field. This approach is similar to two-dimensional stability analyses, where the log spiral potential failure surface is considered. The front surface of the central body interacts with the retaining wallè the uppersurface can be loaded by surcharge loadingè and the log spiral segment defines the curved failure surface of the central part. The cross sections of the lateral bodies are in agreement with the cross section of the central body. On the outer side, they are laterally bounded by a curved and kinematically admissible hyperbolic surface, which is defined by enveloping the hyperbolical half cones and part of the case surface of the leading half cone. The results give values for the passive soil pressure coefficients that are for most cases lower than the values determined by the upper-bound method of limit analysis for a translational failure mechanism, as published in the literature.	can	National Research Council of Canada	2005	1.01	Canadian geotechnical journal	0.697	0.59
10335515	Percentage of harmful discharges for surface current density monitoring in electrical discharge machining process	Electrical discharge machining (EDM) is performed in the gap between the workpiece (usually the anode) and the electrode (usually the cathode). The gapis filled with a dielectric and the pulses generated by a special generatorcause an electrical breakdown in the gap. A breakdown discharge occurs which removes material from the workpiece. The EDM process has been used for more than 50 years, but the influence of the surface current density on the process stability is not well understood. The surface current density is very important in the case of the machining of rough surfaces where the highest material removal rate (MRR) is preferred. For a given eroding surface there exists an optimal electrical current at which the highest MRR is achieved. It is reported in the literature that the percentage of the discharges that are harmful to the EDM process depends on the surface current density in the gap. Thus, experiments were performed to find out the possibility of using the percentage of harmful discharges to monitor the surface current density of the EDM process.	gbr	Mechanical Engineering Publications	2007	1.01	Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers	0.203	0.706
10337307	Correlation between the local climate and the free-cooling potential of latent heat storage	The natural cooling of energy-efficient buildings using latent heat thermal energy storage (LHTES) that is integrated into the building services makes possible energy savings and improved thermal comfort. In this article, studiesof the free-cooling potential for different climatic locations are presented. Six cities from around Europe with a wide range of climatic conditions were selected. The size of the LHTES was optimized on the basis of the calculated cooling degree-hours. First, we analysed the influence of the width of the phase change temperature range and determined the optimal meltingtemperature of the phase change material (PCM). Then, the optimal LHTESwas selected, based on the ratio of the mass of the PCM and the volume flow rate of air ventilating the building. We found that the optimum PCM has amelting temperature that is approximately equal to the average ambient air temperature in the hottest month, and that the free-cooling potential is proportional to the average daily amplitude of the ambient airæs temperature swings. For all the analysed climatic conditions the PCM with a wider phase change temperature range (12 K) was found to be the most efficient. The optimal size of the LHTES for the free cooling of buildings is between 1 and 1.5 kg of PCM per m3/h of fresh ventilation air.	che	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Energy and buildings	1.590	0.763
10337881	On Banach-Mazur compacta	We study the Banach-Mazur compacta ?$Q(n)$?, i.e. sets of all isometry classes of ?$n$?-dimensional Banach spaces, topologized by Banach-Mazur metric. Our main result is that ?$Q(2)$? is homeomorphic to the compactification of a Hilbert cube manifold by a point, for we prove that ?$Q_\varepsilon(2) = Q(2) \setminus \{Eucl.\}$? is a Hilbert cube manifold. As a corollary it follws that ?$Q(2)$? is not homogeneous.	aus	John Wright and Sons Ltd	2000	1.01	Journal of the Australian Mathematical Society	0.273	0.495
10338582	Modelling and parameter comparison of equivalent circuits on the basis of impedance measurements of stainless steels	In our former work [1] we have discussed the impedance of differently heat treated steels X20Cr13 in 0.1 M H2SO4, undergoing an active passive transition. Impedance spectra were interpreted in terms of a model by Armstrong [2, 3], describing the electrochemical reaction at interfaces with adsorbed intermediates. The present work was performed in order to study this phenomenon in more detail, with computer simulations of a new created and more convenient equivalent circuit in comparison with the former model. Computer simulations of equivalent circuits were also made in the region of passivity which was also continuation of our earlier work [4]. In this sense the entire study for these steels was completed by collating distinctive parameter values, demonstrating electrochemical characteristics of steel X20Cr13, undergoing different heat treatments in the active-passive and passive region.	deu	VCH	2006	1.01	Materials and corrosion	0.500	0.68
10339350	Fuel cell entropy production with ohmic heating and diffusive polarization	In this article, entropy production of ohmic heating and concentration polarization is investigated for two types of fuel cells (PEMFC and SOFC). Ohmic entropy production arises from resistance to electron flow through the electrodes, as well as ion flow through the electrolyte. Ohm's law is applied to both ion and electron flows, when formulating the entropy production. Also, entropy production arises from changes in concentration of the reactants, during fuel consumption at the electrode surfaces. Unlike past methods developed for a solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC), this article formulates entropy production within electrodes of a proton exchange membrane fuel cell (PEMFC). Predicted results of cell irreversibilities are successfully validated against measured data. The entropy based method provides a useful alternative to past schemes aiming to reduce voltage losses with polarization curves, as entropy production is directly governed by the Second Law and it encompasses both electrochemical and thermofluid irreversibilities within a fuel cell.	gbr	Pergamon Press.	2006	1.01	International journal of heat and mass transfer	1.482	0.741
10339355	Thermodynamical analysis of human thermal comfort	Traditional methods of human thermal comfort analysis are based on the first law of thermodynamics. These methods use an energy balance of the human body to determine heat transfer between the body and its environment. By contrast, the second law of thermodynamics introduces the useful concept of exergy. It enables the determination of the exergy consumption within the human body dependent on human and environmental factors. Human body exergy consumption varies with the combination of environmental (room) conditions. This process is related to human thermal comfort in connection with temperature, heat, and mass transfer. In this paper a thermodynamic analysis of human heat and mass transfer based on the 2nd law of thermodynamics in presented. It is shown thatthe human bodyæs exergy consumption in relation to selected human parameters exhibits a minimal value at certain combinations of environmental parameters. The expected thermal sensation also shows that there is a correlation between exergy consumption and thermal sensation. Thus, our analysis represents an improvement in human thermal modelling and gives more information about the environmental impact on expected human thermal sensation.	che	Elsevier	2006	1.01	Energy	0.935	0.905
10341142	Calculation of two-phase flow-pressure conditions and pipe systems	This paper proposes a mathematical model underlying a computer program for determining the type of phase flow, the values of characteristic parameters and pressure drops in pipe sections, which are vital for optimal design and for processing pipe networks for the trnsport of two-phase mixtures. The equations, which describe the physical flow-pressure conditions through every cross point, are assumed to be continuous and the energy of every closed loop of analyzed network conserved. The system of equations is nonlinaer, and the solution is solved by linarization with the linear theory method (LTM).	isr	Freund Publishing House Ltd.	2006	1.01	International journal of nonlinear sciences and numerical simulation	4.386	0.746
10342683	Laser refining of a surface layer with silicon carbide	The article discusses the effect of adding silicon carbide by laser remelting of low-carbon steel. Tests in laser remelting were carried out with energy inputs ranging between 10 and 80 J/mm2 with the most favorable degree, i.e., 30%, of overlapping of individual trace. Sufficient energy input was necessaryto dissolve silicon-carbide with iron. A microchemical analysis of the remelted layer confirmed the dissolution of silicon carbide and formation of a smaller portion of martensite (10-20%) and of suesite Fe3Si (65-80%). It was found that the test-specimen deformation was smallest with the laser-beam in the zig-zag motion. The surface was also assessed visually. The choice of adequate remelting conditions reduced, i.e., prevented, the occurrence of cracks and other defects. The influence of energy input and the mode of laser-beam travel on the efficiency of remelting, i.e., refining, was described by a ratio of the width of the remelted surface layer to its depth, which should amount to around 5:1.	usa	Marcel Dekker	2008	1.01	Materials and manufacturing processes	0.706	0.905
10346504	Complex calcium oscillations and the role of mitochondria and cytosolic proteins	Intracellular calcium oscillations, which are oscillatory changes of cytosolic calcium concentration in response to agonist stimulation, are experimentally well observed in various living cells. Simple calcium oscillations represent the most common pattern and many mathematical models have been published to describe this type of oscillation. On the other hand, relatively few theoretical studies have been proposed to give an explanation of complex intracellular calcium oscillations, such as bursting and chaos. In this paper, we develop a new possible mechanism for complex calcium oscillations based on the interplay between three calcium stores in the cell: the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), mitochondria and cytosolic proteins. The majority (80%) of calcium released from the ER is first very quickly sequestered by mitochondria. Afterwards, a much slower release of calcium from the mitochondria serves as the calcium supply for the intermediate calcium exchanges between the ER and the cytosolic proteins causing bursting calcium oscillations. Depending on the permeability of the ER channels and on the kinetic properties of calcium binding to the cytosolic proteins, different patterns of complex calcium oscillations appear. With our model, we are able to explain simple calcium oscillations, bursting and chaos. Chaos is also observed for calcium oscillations in the bursting mode	nld	North-Holland	2000	1.01	Biosystems	0.699	1.778
10346523	Analysis of the long-term performance and tribological behavior of an axial piston pump using diamondlike-carbon-coated piston shoes and biodegradable oil	This work reports on the performance enhancement of a real-scale hydraulic system consisting of diamondlike-carbon (DLC)-coated components in combination with biodegradable oil in long-term experiments under conditions simulating those in an actual application. The performance of a hydraulic axial piston pump with DLC-coated piston shoes was evaluated in a newly designed, dedicated hydraulic test system using fully formulated biodegradable, synthetic ester oil. For comparison, an equal but separated hydraulic system with a conventional commercial pump and stainless-steel shoe surfaces was tested. The tests were run at 85% of the maximum pump load and anoil temperature of around 80°C for a period of 2000 h, which corresponds tomore than 1 yr of continuous 8 h/day operation in an application. A major abrupt oxidation-induced degradation of the oil did not occur in either system; however, the oil from the system comprising the DLC-coated shoes showed noticeably and consistently better results. The wear of the DLC-coated shoes, especially during the running in, was much lower than that in the conventional steel system. Only minor polishing wear was observed on the DLC shoe's sliding surfaces during the test period, while on the steel shoe's surfaces, many scratches were found and some erosion of the edges was detected.	usa	American Society of Mechanical Engineers	2008	1.01	Journal of tribology	0.722	0.986
1034893	Books, culture and the European challenge they face	In the article that takes as its starting point two of the fundamental European Union (EU) principles regarding the issues of culture, cultural diversity and plurilingualism, the author researches the effects to date of the absence of a common European cultural policy. In two concrete cases n taxation on books and public lending rights n he shows that the absence of a common European cultural policy has resulted in practice in the inadequate implementation of these fundamental principles. Recent moves in relation to the formulation of a European constitution point to an awareness of the need for a more active European cultural policy that actually provides a framework within which member states would be independent in the formulation of their own cultural policy models	svn	Evropski inštitut za komuniciranje in kulturo	2004	1.01	Javnost	0.140	0.731
10350102	Calibration of pipe networks for district heating using the nonlinear optimisation method	In this paper a method for developing an optimal tree path of a heating systemis proposed. Based on the Simplex optimization method, the mathematical model that consists of the nonlinear objective function and a system of nonlinear equations for hydraulic limitations is solved by a computer programme. The investment and running expenses are evaluated by the capitalized value method. The optimization of the district heating system with 24 nodes and 33 pipe sectors is processed on a real network case study.	isr	Freund Publishing House Ltd.	2006	1.01	International journal of nonlinear sciences and numerical simulation	4.386	0.746
1035386	Infection of turkeys with Ornithobacterium rhinotracheale and Mycoplasma synoviae	Within 1 mo, two separate outbreaks of respiratory disease occurred in two flocks on the multiage market turkey farm in Slovenia. More severe clinical signs and higher mortality were observed in male birds. Ornithobacterium rhinotracheale (ORT) was isolated in pure culture from tracheas of the affected birds in both outbreakes. Commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test showed the presence of antibodies to ORT in sera of birds from both clinically affected flocks and also in two flocks of younger birds without clinical signs. Immunoblotting with ORT culture isolated during the outbreak as an antigen confirmed the presence of antibodies to ORT in sera of turkeys of all four flocks examined. In addition, three different serologic assays also detected antibodies to Mycoplasma synoviae (MS) in three out of four flocks. The contamitant infection with MS did show an obvious effect on mortality rates nor on the antibody response against ORT. Younger birds appeared to be less succeptible to ORT pathogenicity because in those flocks the infection was subclinical.	usa	American Association of Avian Pathologists	2000	1.01	Avian diseases	1.306	0.587
10355464	Differences in event-related and induced brain oscillations in the theta and alpha frequency bands related to human intelligence	High (intelligence quotient (IQ)=126) and low intelligent individuals (IQ=88) were listening to tone pips and performed an auditory oddball task while their electroencephalogram was recorded. Significant differences relating to intelligence were observed in induced and event related band power in the theta (4-7 Hz) and upper alpha band (10-13 Hz). In the oddball task high intelligent individuals displayed less theta synchronization and more synchronization in the upper alpha band. The results were explained by the more efficient engagement of neural networks in more intelligent individuals.	nld	Elsevier/North Holland Publ. Co.	2000	1.03	Neuroscience letters	2.091	2.536
10355484	Estimating Coal Price Dynamics with the Principal Components Method	The future use of coal depends on environmental protection measures and the Kyoto Protocol, the price of CO2 emission coupons, consumption, new technologies, the price of other energy sources and the liberalization of the electricity markets. The prices of emission coupons will impact the costs of electricity energy production. Due to the relatively higher reference costs of alternative energy sources, we can not expect that the share of coal as an energy source will lower significantly as a source of electricity production in the future. From the point of view of regional economic aspects and the reference costs of electricity production, we could state that using coal in the near future is also tied to the socio-economic aspects of mining domestic coal. Using it in thermo plants is also enabled by the conditions of priority dispatching (since 2000) in the EU economies. We assessed the influence of prices and the use of other energy sources, environmental measures, energy efficiency and the influence of electricity market liberalisation on coal price movements. Our estimation shows that, if the prices of other energy sources and electricity increase, the price of coal increases. If the use of other energy sources increases, and if the gross uses of industrial waste and renewable resources increase, the price of coal decreases. Environmental protection measures contribute to an increase in coal prices. A higher quotient of energy efficiency decelerates the price of coal. And the euro (to dollar) appreciation decelerates coal prices.	rou	Expert	2010	1.01	Romanian Journal of Economic Forecasting	0.438	1.022
10355739	Tribological properties of DLC coatings and comparison with test results	Due to their good wear resistance and low friction coefficient diamond-like carbon (DLC) coatings have been studied intensively for many years and a great deal of research has been carried out in the field of tribology. To facilitate an overview and comparison of the research results, a database containing information on the mechanical and tribological properties of coatings and base materials as well as the test conditions has been designed. The database is constructed in such a way that new data can be added easily. Practicability of the database has been checked on pin-on-disc contact tests using different contact conditions. The main purpose in building the database has been to examine the scientific and the practical value of the numerous research results on DLC coatings and to find out to what extent these data arecomparable with one another. The analysis of the database has showed that it enables a fast search and comparison between different research results.	usa	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Materials characterization	1.225	0.704
10355990	The influence of thread twist on alterations in fibers` mechanucl properties	In order to design high-quality threads, it is necessary to know the properties of threads and fibers, as well as the loadings and deformations which may occur during the sewing process. Thread properties depend on the mechanical properties of the fiber and the constructional parameters of the thread and its surface treatment, which directly influence sewing performance.The mechanical properties of a thread primarily depend on the fiber mechanical properties and the amount of twist. Knowledge of the thread dynamic loadings during the sewing process, depending on the number of turns and the lubrication method, is important for planning the required processing properties of the thread. This paper presents research into the influence of thread twist and the lubrication method on the mechanical properties and dynamic load of PES core-spun thread and its fibers. Research into the mechanical properties of the different twisted and surface treated threads, and separated fibers was carried out for this purpose. The influence of threaddynamic load during a sewing process was also researched regarding any alterations in the mechanical properties of the threads and separated fibers. Analyses of the results show that the amount of twist depends on the mechanical properties of the thread and its constituent fibers, whilst the method of surface treatment is based on the specific mechanical properties of the thread. A dynamic load causes greater or smaller thread deformations, which is reflected in changes in the thread and fiber mechanical properties. The occurred changes depend on dynamic load, amount of twist, and the lubrication method, which is confirmed with statistical analysis of the measured results.	usa	Sage Publications	2006	1.01	Textile research journal	0.578	0.597
1035625	Improving balance in subacute stroke patients	The aim of the study was to compare the efficacy of balance training in a balance trainer, a newly developed mechanical device for training balance, with conventional balance training in subacute stroke patients. This was a randomized controlled study. Fifty participants met the inclusion criteria and 39 finished the study. The participants were randomly divided into control and balance trainer groups. The first had conventional balance training while the second trained balance in the balance trainer. All the participants trained balance 20 min per day, 5 days per week for 4 weeks and had additional 25 min of physiotherapy. Balance was assessed by the Berg Balance Scale, one-leg standing, Timed Up and Go (TUG) Test and 10 m walk. There was significant improvement in Berg Balance Scale (P<0.001), TUG (P<0.001) and 10 m walk (P=0.001) in both the groups, whereas no differences were found in any of these measures between the two groups either regarding overall average level or regarding average improvement. Both the groups improved significantly in standing on the healthy (P=0.001) as well as the impaired lower limb (P=0.005), whereby no significant differences were observed between the groups. Within both groups, significantly fewer subjects needed assistance of a physiotherapist for the 10 m walk and the TUG test at the end than at the beginning of the study (P=0.016). It can be concluded that both conventional balance training and training balance in the balance trainer equally improved balance in subacute stroke patients. The balance trainer cannot replace a physiotherapist but it is a safe and efficient supplementary method.	gbr	Lipincott Williams & Wilkins	2010	1.01	International journal of rehabilitation research	1.192	1.126
10360854	The impact of mineral composition on compressibility of saturated soils	This article analyses the impact of soils` mineral composition on their compressibility. Physical and chemical properties of minerals which influence the quantity of intergrain water in soils and, consequently, the compressibility of soils are established by considering the previous theoretical findings. Test results obtained on artificially prepared samples are used to determine the analytical relationship between the water content and stress state, depending on the mineralogical properties of the soils. A practical applicability of the established interdependence is verified on fiverandomly selected samples of natural soils. The selected approach to the analysis of the influence of soils composition on the water content at different stress states allows for the first time to establish generally validcriteria for determining such relationship.	nld	North-Holland	2006	1.01	Mechanics of materials	2.106	1.092
10361110	Intake system design procedure for engines with special requirements	Intake manifolds provide fresh air to internal combustion engines and have a major effect on their performance. Therefore, many investigations are related to their design in order to improve the charging efficiency and to achieve theuniform distribution of fresh air among the engine cylinders. This paper deals with the design procedure of a cheap multipoint injection intake system,adapted to a racing car engine. Some special demands had to be taken into consideration. The intake manifold must contain the imposed constraint for the airflow in the shape of a single circular restrictor placed between the throttle and the engine to limit its power. The flow and the pressure lossreduction in the engine intake region were investigated with computationalfluid dynamics software. Two different geometries of the intake manifold were taken into consideration. On the basis of the numerically obtained three-dimensional results, a mathematical model of the engine with a more appropriate intake was made in the engine simulation code in order to anticipate its characteristics. The intake system was designed, practically manufactured, and tested in the laboratory. The experimental results confirmednumerical predictions, justifying the simple and relatively quick design procedure for the intake system.	gbr	The Institution of Mechanical Engineers	2006	1.01	Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers	0.254	0.72
10361622	Study of crosslinking efficiency of cotton cellulose by different physical-chemical methods and genetic programming	We have investigated the crosslinking effect of unmercerized and mercerized cotton celluose crosslinked with different BTCA mass fractions in the impregnation bath. Crosslinking efficiency was analyzed using FT-IR spectroscopy, water retention capacity method, tensiometry and the methylene blue method. On the basis of the experimental data which was obtained with theseparate physical-chemical methods, different prediction models for crosslinking efficiency was developed. Modelling was taken out with the genetic programming method. Research shows good accordance of the experimentaldata with the genetic models.	deu	Maney Publishing	2006	1.01	Materials research innovations	0.523	1.659
1036168	Polyunsaturated fatty acid supply with human milk	The origin of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) in human milk has not been studied in detail. Diet, liberation from maternal stores and endogenous synthesis from precursors may contribute to PUFA present in human milk. Other factors influencing lipid content and fatty acid composition such as gestational age, stage of lactation, nutritional status and genetical background are known. In a series of in vivo studies using stable isotope methodologies we investigated the metabolism of PUFA during lactation. With this techniques the transfer of single dietary fatty acids into human milk, the oxidation and the deposition in tissues were estimated. Our studies demonstrate that the major part of PUFA in human milk seems not to be derived directly from the maternal diet but from body stores. Nevertheless diet is important, because long term intakes sffect composition of body stores.	usa	Kluwer Academic	2000	1.01	Advances in experimental medicine and biology	0.513	2.372
10365718	Intelligent programming of CNC turning operations using genetic algorithm	CAD/CAM systems are nowadays tightly connected to ensure that CAD data can be used for optimal tool path determination and generation of CNC programs for machine tools. The aim of our research is the design of a computer-aided, intelligent and genetic algorithm(GA) based programming system for CNC cutting tools selection, tool sequences planning and optimisation of cutting conditions. The first step is geometrical feature recognition and classification. On the basis of recognised features the module for GA-based determination of technological data determine cutting tools, cutting parameters (according to work piece material and cutting tool material) and detailed tool sequence planning. Material, which will be removed, is split into several cuts, each consisting of a number of basic tool movements. In thenext step, GA operations such as reproduction, crossover and mutation are applied. The process of GA-based optimisation runs in cycles in which new generations of individuals are created with increased average fitness of a population. During the evaluation of calculated results (generated NC programmes) several rules and constraints like rapid and cutting tool movement, collision, clamping and minimum machining time, which represent the fitness function, were taken into account. A case study was made for the turning operation of a rotational part. The results show that the GA-based programming has a higher efficiency. The total machining time was reduced by 16%. The demand for a high skilled worker on CAD/CAM systems and CNC machine tools was also reduced.	gbr	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2006	1.01	Journal of intelligent manufacturing	0.598	0.702
10373398	Predicting seam appearance quality	The appearance of a garment is affected by the quality of the fabrics used in its manufacture, as well as a number of factors determined by the technology of the garment manufacturing process. Since fabric quality, as the most important element of garment appearance, is determined by its mechanical properties, it is obvious that these properties directly impact fabric processing properties. It can be seen through various forms of fabric behaviorunder the loads that occur in sewing. Investigations of the correlations of the stress and fabric behavior are aimed at constructing a system to predict fabric behavior in garment manufacturing processes, as well as to predict the appearance of the garment to be manufactured. The investigation presented here deals with the impact of fabric mechanical properties on the quality of seam appearance, as defined by seam puckering andwork-piece flotation. Machine learning methods included in the Orange software package were used to establish the importance of mechanical properties with respect to fabric behavior.	nld	Sage Publications	2006	1.01	Textile research journal	0.578	0.597
10374934	The adsorption, CMC determination and corrosion inhibition of some N-alkyl quaternary ammonium salts on carbon steel surface in 2 M H2SO4	Electrochemical measurements were performed to investigate the effectiveness of cationic surfactants of the N-alkyl quaternary ammonium salt type, i.e. myristyltrimethylammonium chloride (MTACl), cetyldimethylbenzylammonium chloride (CDBACl), and trioctylmethylammonium chloride (TOMACl), as corrosion inhibitors for type X4Cr13 ferritic stainless steel in 2 M H2SO4 solution. Potentiodynamic polarization measurements showed that these surfactants hinder both anodic and cathodic processes, i.e. act as mixed-type inhibitors. It was found that the adsorption of the N-alkyl ammonium ion in 2 M H2SO4 solution follows the Langmuir adsorption isotherm. Plots of log ?$[/theta$?/(1-?$/theta$?)] versus log?$c_{inh}$? yielded straight lines with a slope, which changed drasticallyat the critical micelle concentration (CMC) of the surfactants studied. Accordingly, the CMC could be accurately determined from these measurements. The calculated values of the free energy of adsorption ?$/Delta$??$G_{ads}$? are, in cases when the charge on the metal surface is negative with respect to the PZC, relatively high what is characteristically for the chemisorption. On the other hand, for positive metal surfaces it is assumed that ?$SO_4^{2-}$? anions are adsorbed first, so the cationic species would be limited by the surface concentration of anions. Accordingly ?$/Delta$??$G_{ads}$? values were lower in this case and the adsorption is due to merely electrostatic attraction, which is characteristically of physisorption.	nld	Elsevier	2006	1.01	Colloids and surfaces	1.611	2.525
10376987	Numerical and experimental investigation of a single stage centripetal pump	In the present paper a numerical and experimental investigation of a single stage centripetal pump (SSCP) is presented. The SSCP was designed using CAD and CFD tools. The performance curves of the SSCP were measured in a test facility with water involved as the working media and compared with the calculated ones. The measured performance curves are characterised by the region of hysteresis since the throttle closing performance curves do not correspond completely to the throttle opening performance curves. The deliveryhead and efficiency are abruptly decreased when reducing the flow ratefrom the point of the maximum delivery head. Due to the evident analogy ofthe SSCP and the axial-flow compressors performance curves and similarities in the rotor design it can be anticipated that such an operating behaviour of the SSCP is caused by the rotating stall phenomenon. CFD simulations confirm that the stalling of the rotor passages causes the steep delivery head drop when decreasing the flow rate from the point of maximum head.	deu	VDI-Verlag GmbH	2008	1.01	Forschung im Ingenieurwesen	0.170	0.986
10377755	Heat transfer influenced by turbulent airflow inside an axially rotating diffuser	The paper presents a study of heat transfer between the turbulent airflow and the inner wall surface of an axial diffuser rotating around its longitudinal axis. Heat transfer was assessed through the measurement of a time-dependent temperature field of the diffuser inner wall surface. Measurements of the instantaneous flow velocity components were performed by a laser-Doppler anemometry system, which delivered information on mean velocity components as well as on the turbulence intensity. A significant increase of all three mean velocity components was observed near the rotating diffuser wall in comparisonwith a non-rotating diffuser. Temperature field measurements were carried out by means of infrared thermography. The experiment showed a significant dependence of the temperature field on the turbulent flowfield induced by diffuser rotation. A strong influence of the flow separation and reattachment on the temperature distribution was observed, while rotation was found to suppress the occurrence of flow separation from the diffuser wall. Properties of the velocity field such as turbulent kinetic energy were directly coupled with the temperature distribution in order to gain the information on how to enhance or reduce heat transfer by changing the integralparameters of the diffuser (e.g. rotation frequency or amount of flow).	nld	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2008	1.01	Flow, turbulence and combustion	0.776	1.21
1037927	Shear modulus and stiffness of brickwork masonry: an experimental perspective	Masonry is a composite non-homogeneous structural material, whose mechanical properties depend on the properties of and the interaction between the composite components - brick and mortar, their volume ratio, the properties of their bond, and any cracking in the masonry. The mechanical properties of masonry depend on the orientation of the bed joints and the stress state of the joints, and so the values of the shear modulus, as well as the stiffness of masonry structural elements can depend on various factors. An extensive testing programme in several countries addressws the problem of measurement of the stiffness propertries of masonry. These testing programs have provided sufficient data to permit a review of the influence of different testing techniques (mono and bi-axial tests), the variations caused by distinct loading conditions (monotonic and cyclic), the impact of the mortar type, as well as influence of the reinforcement. This review considers the impact of the measurement device used for determining the shear modulus and stiffness of walls on the results. The results clearly indicate a need to re-assess the values stated in almost all national codes for the shear modulus of the masonry, especially for masonry made with lime mortar, where strong anisotropic behaviour is in the stiffness properties.	kor	Techno-press	2005	1.01	Structural engineering and mechanics	0.432	0.644
10380571	Modelling of residual stress profiles in plasma nitrided tool steel	Residual stresses may be present in engineering components as an unintended consequence of manufacturing processes, but they may also be introduced deliberately to beneficial effect during surface engineering procedures. Plasma nitriding and nitrocarburizing are such processes of particular importance for tool steel components used in tool, die and machine applications. These processes afford significant advantages, such as greatly improved wear and corrosion resistance, as well as fatigue strength resulting from the generation of near-surface compressive residual stresses. A precise knowledge of the level and distribution of residual stresses that exist in such engineering components is necessary for product development and quality control purposes, as well as for the accurate prediction of fatigue resistance. If located at the same depth as the Hertzian stress concentrations, compressive residual stresses can greatly improve the fatigue properties of loaded surfaces. Therefore, reliable methods for residual stressdetermination are required, with residual stress measurement techniques having their limitations. The aim of the present paper was to correlate the residual stress distribution in plasma nitrided and nitrocarburized H11 tool steel with the microhardness depth profile, in order to determine whether a relatively simple microhardness-related parameter could be used to predict the depth of the maximum compressive residual stresses, and to thereby enable optimization of the nitriding parameters for specific contact conditions.	usa	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Materials characterization	1.225	0.704
10383126	Primarni uèinak praškastog i tekuèeg deterdženta u pranju	The assessment of detergents and washing processes must take into consideration the primary and the secondary effect. The influence of powder and liquid detergent concentration on the primary washing effect was studied in this paper. Cotton and polyester/cotton fabrics were soiled with coffee, wine, cacao, blood, oil, lipstick, ketchup and shoe polish, and washed with powder and liquid detergents at 60 °C. Washing effects, as well as whiteness, were estimated by remission value of soiled and washed fabrics. Wastewater quality parameters were anlysed by pH, AOX, the quantity of anionic surfactant, chlor, COD and BOD. Powder detergent was assessed as the better one for these soilings in the wash conditions. Quality parameters of wastewater after washing with liquid detergents completely fulfill the requirements of national regulations in Slovenia and Croatia.	hrv	Hrvatski inženjerski savez tekstilaca	2006	1.04	Tekstil	0.085	0.597
1038331	Partialization of categories and inverse braid-permutation monoids	We show how one can use the partialization functor to obtain several recently defined inverse monoids, and use this functor to define new objects, which we call the inverse braid-permutation monoids. A presentation for this monoid is obtained. Finally, we study some abstract properties of the partialization functor and its iterations. This leads to a categorification of a monoid of all order-preserving maps, and series of orthodox generalizations of the symmetric inverse semigroup.	sgp	World Scientific	2008	1.01	International journal of algebra and computation	0.421	0.705
10383894	Object grating method application in strain determination on CTOD tests	Standard fracture toughness tests require standard specimens with the presumption that mechanical properties are uniform in the crack growth direction. Standards for crack tip opening displacement (CTOD) fracture tests prescribe remote crack mouth opening displacement, which can lead to inadequate results in the case of heterogeneous materials properties. This paper describes the application of an object grating method (OGM) on the fracture behaviour of a heterogeneous specimen. Fracture behaviour is described by measuring deformation on the surface of a specimen, in terms of CTOD and, consequently, by strain determination. An OGM is advantageously usedwhen measuring modified CTOD tests on two specimens with an initial crack in a macroscopic heterogeneous welded joint. Results significantly show that fracture behaviour depends on the material in the vicinity of the crack tip concerning the direction of crack propagation.	gbr	British Society for Strain Measurement	2006	1.01	Strain	0.535	0.571
10384392	Correlations between ERP parameters and intelligence	The present study investigated differences in ERP parameters related to intelligence. For that purpose 74 individuals (Intelligence: M = 107; S.D. = 12; range 73-135), of average creativity passively listened to two tones and performed two auditory, and two visual oddball tasks while their EEG was recorded. The approximate entropy parameters, peak latencies and amplitudes were determined. The correlation coefficients indicated that in the attended conditions, the more intelligent individuals showed more regular ERP waveforms than less intelligent individuals. It was further found that less intelligent individuals showed increased P300 latencies and reduced amplitudes. The differences were explained with a more specific engagement of neural networks in more intelligent individuals	nld	North-Holland Pub. Co.	2000	1.01	Biological psychology	1.500	2.193
10389782	A study of treating textile wastewater after reactive dye printing by using nanofitration	A synthetically-prepared reactive dye printing wastewater was subjected to nanofiltration. Except for the dye type, the basic composition of the synthetic wastewater was similar to wastewater obtained from a local textile factory in Slovenia. The dyes used were: C.I. Reactive Red 24 and C.I. Reactive Black 5. The filtrations were carried out with two nanofiltration membranes (NFT 50 and DL), which were evaluated for membrane fouling tendency, permeate flux, and their suitability in removing salt, colour and COD. All filtration experiments were conducted in a plate and frame module. For both the NFT 50 and DL membrane the permeate flux did not increase linearly with pressure due to concentration polarization. However, at all pressures the permeate flux obtained with the DL membrane were higher than with the NFT 50 membrane. The retentions, observed at transmembrane pressuresranging from 2-15 bar, showed that the highest retention values wereachieved at 10 bar. The best separation efficiency was achieved with NFT-50 membrane where permeate samples were practically colourless. The low retention of COD for both membranes was explained by the fact that smaller organic molecules such as urea, rapidoprint (nitrobenzene sulphonate) are not retained by the membrane and therefore contributes to high COD values in the permeate.	hrv	Hrvatski inženjerski savez tekstilaca	2006	1.01	Tekstil	0.085	0.597
10390294	Non-Newtonian fluid flow through a planar symmetric expansion: shear thickenning fluids	The incompressible non-Newtonian fluid flow through a symmetric sudden expansion is studied numerically in order to obtain Reynolds number critical value. The Quadratic model is employed to accommodate the shear-thickening behavior of corn-starch and water mixture. Numerical procedure is validated with results for the Newtonian fluid flow in a range of the Reynolds number Re=10,20,.,100. Results for the non-Newtonian fluid show that the shear-thickening behavior lowers the threshold of the transition from flow symmetry to its asymmetry (lowers the onset of the bifurcation and the critical value of the Reynolds number) and increases the reattachment length. In addition, the results for the Quadratic model are compared to the results obtained with the Power law.	nld	Elsevier Scientific Publ. Co	2006	1.01	Journal of non-Newtonian fluid mechanics	1.449	1.092
10391062	Comparison of performance of Web services, WS-security, RMI, and RMI-SSL	This article analyses two most commonly used distributed models in Java: Web services and RMI (Remote Method Invocation). The paper focuses on regular (unsecured) as well as on secured variants, WS-Security and RMI-SSL. The most important functional differences are identified and the performance on two operating systems (Windows and Linux) is compared. Sources of performance differences related to the architecture and implementation are identified. The overheads related to the usage of security and the influences of JCE (Java Cryptography Extension) security providers on the performance of secured remote invocations are identified. Finally, the impact of distributed model s on design and implementation of distributed applications is identified and guidelines for improving distributed application performance in design and implementation stage are provided. The paper contributes to the understanding of functional and performance related differences between Web services and RMI and their secure variants, WS-Security and RMI-SSL.	usa	Elsevier North Holland	2006	1.01	The Journal of Systems and Software	0.592	1.001
10400022	Crack tip shielding or anti-shielding due to smooth and discontinuous material inhomogeneities	This paper describes a theoretical model and related computational methods forexamining the influence of inhomogeneous material properties on the crack driving force in elastic and elastic-plastic materials. Following the configurational forces approach, the crack tip shielding or anti-shielding dueto smooth (e.g. graded layer) and discontinuous (e.g. bimaterial interface)distributions in material properties are derived. Computational post-processing methods are described to evaluate these inhomogeneity effects.The utility of the theoretical model and computational methods is demonstrated by examining a bimaterial interface perpendicular to a crack in elastic and elastic-plastic compact tension specimens.	nld	Sijthoff & Noorahoff	2005	1.01	International journal of fracture	0.705	0.96
10403929	A new construction of semi-free actions on Menger manifolds	A simple construction of semi-free action on Menger manifolds is presented. As an application we prove a theorem about simultaneous coexsistence of countably many semi-free actions of compact metric zero-dimensional groups with the prescribed fixed-point sets. Let ?$G$? be a compact metric zero-dimensional group, represented as the direct product of subgroups ?$G_i$?, ?$M$? a ?$\mu^n$?-manifold and ?$\Sigma(M),\nu(M)$? its pseudo-interior and pseudo-boundary, respectively. Then for every closed subsets ?$X_i$?, ?$i\ge 1$?, of ?$M$?, there exists a ?$G$?-action on ?$M$? such that (1) ?$\Sigma(M)$? and ?$\nu(M)$? are invariant subsets of ?$M$?; and (2) For every ?$i\ge 1$?, ?$X_i$? is the fixed point set of any element ?$g\in G_i\setminus \{e\}$?.	usa	American Mathematical Society	2001	1.01	Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society	0.369	0.48
10404379	Compatibility of DLC coatings with formulated oils	In the present study, the tribological performance and compatibility of hydrogenated amorphous carbon coating (a-C:H) and metal-doped diamond-like carbon (DLC) coating (Me-C:H) with formulated oils under the boundary lubrication regime was investigated. The investigation employed ball-on-flat contact geometry in reciprocating sliding motion and six formulated oils (manual gearbox oil, automatic gearbox oil, hydraulic oil, compressor oil, andnormal and high performance motor oil), with pure poly-alpha-olefin (PAO) oil used as a reference. In addition, DLC coatings behavior in diesel and gasoline fuel was evaluated. Compared with the uncoated steel surfaces a-C:H coatings give improved wear resistance in base PAO as well as in fully formulated oils and fuels. On the other hand, W-doped DLC coatings show the lowest steady-state friction under boundary lubrication, especially when using oils with high additive contents.	gbr	Butterworth Scientific Limited	2008	1.01	Tribology international	1.423	0.986
10404441	On Alexandroff theorem for general Abelian groups	Let ?$P$? and ?$K$? be simplicial complexes and assume that ?$K$? is countable. Let ?$T^\ast$? be a truncated continuous cohomology theory such that ?$T^n(P) \ne 0$?, for some ?$n < -1$? amd ?$T^k(K) = 0$?, for all ?$k<n$?. We prove that then there exist a compactum ?$X$? with the property ?$e-{\rm dim}X \le K$?, and a ?$T^n$?-essential map ?$f: X \to P$?. We also prove that there exist an infinite-dimensional compactum ?$X$? such that ?${\rm dim}_{\ZZ_p}X = 1$? and ?$e-{\rm dim}X > M(\ZZ_p,1)$? and a compactum ?$Y$? such ?$e - {\rm dim}Y \le \RR P^\infty$? and ?$e - {\rm dim}Y > \RR P^m$?, for all ?$m$?.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Topology and its Applications	0.280	0.48
10404635	A conceptual framework for the collaborative modeling of networked manufacturing systems	A manufacturing system is a product, and has to be designed as any other product. Therefore, a need for adequate methodological support and tools for modeling, structuring, and control of the next generation manufacturing systems is recognized. In this study, the adaptive distributed modeling framework for collaborative design and operations of network manufacturing systems is presented. In manufacturing networks, several autonomous partners participate in dynamic design of a manufacturing system, its implementation, and adaptation. In this context collaborative modeling, structuring, and control in distributed manufacturing environment play a vital role. The proposed modeling framework introduces the common modeling space and enables acollaborative definition of modeling building blocks, model design, simulation, and operations support of distributed manufacturing systems in a dynamic environment - which is the realistic nature of the global manufacturing. The prototype of the framework is elaborated in a case study.	gbr	Sage Publications	2008	1.01	Concurrent engineering	0.611	0.905
10405398	Selection of the economic objective function for the optimization of process flow sheets	This paper highlights the problem of selecting the most suitable economic optimization criteria for mathematical programming approaches to the synthesis, design, and optimization of chemical process flow sheets or their subsystems. Minimization of costs and maximization of profit are the most frequently used economic criteria in technical papers. However, there are manyother financial measures which can lead to different optimal solutions if applied in the objective function. This paper describes the characteristics ofthe optimal solutions obtained with various optimization criteria like the total annual cost, the profit, the payback time, the equivalent annual cost, the net present worth, and the internal rate of return. It was concluded that the maximization of the net present worth (NPW) with a discount rate equal to the minimum acceptable rate of return (MARR) is probably the most appropriate method for the optimization of process flow sheets or their subsystems. Similar or equal solutions can be obtained by simpler criteria of minimum equivalent annual cost or maximum profit if the annual investment cost is calculated by using the MARR instead of the straight-line depreciation method.These criteria represent a thorough compromise between quantitative andqualitative measures, because they consider the absolute terms of future cash flows of investments equally important as profitability through the life cycle of the project. The uncertainty related to the value of the MARR was considered by the generation of Pareto optimal solutions for the NPW and by the stochastic analyses of two design example problems.	nld	American Chemical Society	2006	1.01	Industrial & engineering chemistry research	1.518	0.921
10406233	On the point stabilizers of transitive groups with non-self-paired suborbits of length 2	In our recent article a characterization of transitive permutation groups having a non-self-paired suborbit of length 2 (with respect to which the corresponding orbital graph is connected) was obtained in terms of their point stabilizers. As a consequence, elementary abelian groups were proved to be only possible abelian point stabilizers arising from such actions, and ?$D_8$? was shown to be only nonabelian group of order 8 with the same property. Constructing of such group actions with point stabilizers isomorphic to ?$D_8$? or to ?$\ZZ_2^h$?, ?$h\ge 1$?, were also given there. These results are extended here to include a more in depth analysis of the structure of point stabilizers of such group actions, resulting in a set of necessary conditions allowing us to obtain a restricted list of 19 possible candidates for point stabilizers of such group actions when the point stabilizers have order ?$2^h$?, ?$h\le 8$?. (For ?$h\le 5$?, this list gives a complete classification of such point stabilizers). Furthermore, a construction of a transitive permutation group action with a non-self-paired suborbit of length 2 and point stabilizer isomorphic to ?$D_8 \times \ZZ_2^{h-3}$? is given for each ?$h\ge 3$?.	deu	de Gruyter	2001	1.01	Journal of group theory	0.379	0.48
10407452	The efficiency of entrepreneurship policy support for the intrnationalisation of SMEs	The objective of this paper is to evaluate the efficiency of entrepreneurship policy support for the internationalisation of Small- and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) in Slovenia. For this purpose, the mean importance of the primary motives for entering foreign markets, as well as the barriers to entering and doing business in foreign markets, together with knowledge and expectations about governmental and non-governmental support services, were measured in the first part of this research. In the second part, the web portal of the central Slovenian institution for entrepreneurship acceleration - Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment (PAEFI) - was analysed. The last part of our research comprised website analyses of institutional support for the internationalisation of SMEs, in three other selected member states of the European Union. The study highlights the low awareness and negative experiences of Slovenian SMEs with institutional support for the internationalisation of SMEs.	che	Inderscience Publishers	2010	1.01	European journal of international management	0.220	1.646
10416667	Analysis of hydraulic characteristics of guard-gate for hydropower plant	A guard-gate can be installed at the inlet of the pressure tunnel, at the down stream end of the surge tank or in the draft tube of the water turbine. A hydraulic shape of the gate and characteristics of the hydropower plant flow-passage sytem govern the magnitude of pressure forces acting on the gate structure. Flow conditions at the downstream end of the gate may require adequate air admission. Numerical analysis of hydraulic characteristics has been performed for a vertical leaf gate at different gate openings. The analysis has been performed with Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) code using finite volume method. Computational results are compared with results of measurements carried out in a model test rig.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10416923	Vibration analysis to determine the condition of gear units	The use of the most up-to-date production technologies and a high level of production stability without any unscheduled outages are of utmost importance; they are affected primarily by monitoring the condition and by adequate maintenance of mechanical systems. Life cycle design of machines and devices is nowadays gaining ground rather quicklyè users want that machines and devices operate with a high level of accuracy and reliability and with as few outages as possible. Thus, by monitoring the condition, not only the presence of changes but also predictions related to the type and size of damage or error jeopardising the high quality of operation during the remaining life cycle of a machine is established.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10418966	Electrohydraulic pressure control by a self-adjusting proportional derivative controller	The main characteristic of an electrohydraulic pump control system is the presence of an electrical signal path. It requires at least one sensor for the controlled value (in this case pressure), delivering feedback to be compared with the electrical or numerical reference in the controller. The additonal expense penalty for the sensor and the valve is offset by the advantage of flexibility in the structure and parameters of the controller in comparison to hydraulic - mechanical concepts. Thus, the transfer response can be adapted to demands, even in the operational state. Sophisticated control structures can be implemented easily in the form of computer or microcontroller programs. The layout of electrohydraulic pressure control discussed in this study includes the presented loading unit. The variable pump is designed to act together with a proportional valve having two metering edges. It is less expensive compared to the design with a synchronizing cylinder and four metering edges. However, only inferior static and dynamic performance can be expected. Hydraulic energy is supplied to the control valve directly from the output port of the pump - with the advantage of simple assembly, as there are no additional components required - but with the drawback that there is influence on the control loop`s properties at every change in the disturbance value or reference. The aim of the study presented in this paper is a more efficient and simple concept compared to other known methods for pressure control of the above mentioned pump including the dynamics of the distribution network, and also the characteristics of the hydraulic load with special focus on improvements in steady state and dynamic behaviour.	usa	Society for Experimental Stress Analysis	2006	1.01	Experimental techniques	0.274	0.741
10419990	Transfer of ink-jet printed textiles for home furnishing into production with rotary screen printing method	In this work, a collection of decorative textiles for home furnishing was designed on a CAD CAM system, printed with an ink-jet printer, and transferredinto production using rotary screen printing. The basic materials used were linen woven fabric and reactive dyes. Colorimetric measurements werecarried out for the samples printed with both printing procedures. The reflectance values, CIELAB colour values and E* colour difference values were obtained and compared using two spectrophotometers. The colour fastness of theprinted fabrics to washing, rubbing and artificial light was determined according to ISO standards. The research shows that an ink-jet printed collection can be transferred to rotary screen printing. The implementation ofan ink-jet printing system in a traditional production process is recommendable for a traditional printer, because the sample collection can be prepared with significant savings in costs and faster turn-around.	pol	Institute of Chemical Fibres	2005	1.01	Fibres & textiles in Eastern Europe	0.397	0.539
10421014	Experimental investigation of optimal timing of the Diesel engine injection pump using biodiesel fuel	This paper discusses the influence of biodiesel on output characteristics of adiesel engine and optimal timing setup for its injection pump. The influence of biodiesel is studied by running experiments on an NA diesel bus engine MAN D2 2566 with a direct-injection M system. The fuel used is biodiesel produced from rapeseed. Special attention is focused on the determination of the optimal injection-pump timing with respect to engine harmful emissions, enginefuel consumption, and other engine performance parameters. These engine characteristics are compared against those obtained using conventional D2 diesel. Experiments with biodiesel and D2 are run on several engine operating regimes. The engine was monitored for possible operation problems and carefully examined after the tests. The results obtained are presented and analyzed. It is shown that with carefully optimized timing of the pump, the harmful emission of NOx, smoke, HC, and CO can be reduced essentially by keeping other engine characteristics within acceptable limits.	nld	The Society	2006	1.01	Energy & fuels	1.519	0.921
10423835	Laser supported optical control of high pressure aluminium cast products	We present a new method for surface quality control of aluminium high pressure cast products. By this method it is aimed to improve efficiently the existing practice of castings being only visually checked for surface defects such as laminations, non-fills and cold shots. The method is based on laser triangulation principle. The measured cloud of points is analysed using software designed specifically for automatic detection of surface defects. The paper describes a measurement system, measuring procedure focussed on the detection of surface defects and the comparison of the results with a visual inspection.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10424347	Optimum selection of information terminals for production monitoring in manufacturing industries	The purpose of automated acquisition of production data in manufacturing industries is aimed to provide accurate data about the performance of the scheduled tasks and the production process. Hence, easier and more effective production control can be achieved. The information acquired includes the duration of each operation, the number of manufactured items of products, the amount of scrap as well as the duration of downtimes and their root-causes. A way to acquire relevant data makes use of special-purpose information terminals. The problem that arises here is how to select the optimum number ofthe terminals in order to minimize the overall losses. The approach presented below relies on optimization of a stochastic criterion function, which combines the terminal costs and costs related to the waiting times during busy sessions. The solution suggested is based on using the distribution of events, recorded during the past production session. A case study dealing with optimum selection of terminals in a real production processis presented in detail.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.02	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10426907	Simulation of workpiece forming and centre displacement in plunge centreless grinding	By reducing the set-up time of centreless grinding system, higher process flexibility and productivity can be obtained. This goal is approached by developing a simulation model that assists in efficient centreless grinding system set-up. In this paper, an analytical modelling of plunge centreless grinding is described. The developed model incorporates the workpiece forming mechanism along with workpiece dynamics and facilitates the simulation of workpiece form and its centre displacement. The prototype simulation model hasbeen embedded within a spreadsheet environment and experimentally verified.	usa	Pergamon	2008	1.01	International journal of machine tools & manufacture	1.576	0.905
10427163	Heat transfer evaluation method in complex rotating environments employing IR thermography and CFD	This article presents a measuring method for determination of convective heat transfer in rotating environments. The method is used to obtain temperature and Nusselt number distributions on optically accessible objects inside real operating environments, without the need for implementation of complex surface heat flux measurements. Temperature maps of the observed surfaces are acquired non-intrusively by infrared (IR) thermography, whereas heat flux datais computed numerically by computational fluid dynamics (CFD) tools. The method was employed on a rotating hollow blade, heated internally by secondaryair flow. Experimental and numerical results for the observed blade side are compared in terms of surface temperature 2D distributions. Temperature distributions are further statistically evaluated and show good agreement, which is the basic precondition for combining experimental and numerical data by the method. Results are presented in terms of combined experimental-numerical Nusselt number shown as two-dimensional distribution onthe blade pressure side.	usa	Hemisphere Pub.	2008	1.01	Experimental heat transfer	0.535	0.986
10428443	Optodynamic description of a linear momentum transfer from a laser induced ultrasonic wave to a rod	We present a new optodynamic experimental technique to measure the linear momentum obtained by a rod during a nanosecond laser pulse ablation of the rod's front face on the basis of the displacement due to an ultrasonic wave reflection at its rear end. With the help of a simple theory, we explained the step-like motion of the rod's free end. This theory conforms well with the general shape of the measured displacement history curve. The acquired momentum can be directly estimated by measuring the height of a step from the step-like motion of the rod's end. Measurements based on an arm-compensated Michelson interferometer also enabled us to follow the attenuation of an ultrasonic wave and so to determine the characteristic attenuation time. This quantity plays a major role in the transfer of linear momentum from within the initial ultrasonic wave to the final net uniform motion of the specimen.	deu	Springer	2008	1.01	Applied physics	1.884	1.953
10428505	Average distances in square-cell configurations	A square-cell configuration (""square animal"") is a subgraph of the square lattice in which all inner faces are 4-cycles. We determine explicit expression for the sum ?$(W)$? of the (topological) distances between all pairs of vertices of a square-cell configuration, as well as for the related average distance ?$\overline{W}$?. Such expressions are deduced for several families of symmeytic square-cell configurations. For instance, if ?$O(n)$? stands for the octagonal square-cell configuration with ?$n$? circular levels, then ?$W(O(n)) = (211/5)n^5 - (181/3)n^4 + (109/3)n^3 - (35/3)n^2 + (22/15)n$? and ?$\overline{W}(O(n)) = 2[(7n^2 - 10n + 4)(7n^2 - 10n + 3)]^{-1} W(O(n))$?.	usa	Wiley.	2000	1.01	International journal of quantum chemistry	1.317	1.942
10428694	Computer-aided derivation of the optimal mathematical models to study gear-pair dynamic by using genetic programming	A general problem is addressed to perform optimal identification of the dynamic system automatically, by using genetic programming algorithm (Koza 1992). The main objective of this approach is to derive optimal mathematical model (reliable and accurate) and determine optimal parameter values for generated mathematical model on the basis of measured dynamic response for selected structure that behaves dynamically. A gear-pair dynamic is studied asan example.	nld	Springer	2006	1.01	Structural and Multidisciplinary Optimization	1.019	0.746
10428699	A method for surface quality assessment of die-castings based on laser triangulation	This paper presents a new method for the surface quality assessment of safety-critical die-castings. We have developed a measurement system that measures the surface of a die-casting and provides quantitative surface quality assessment within a die-casting cycle of 70 s. The measurement system,based on the laser triangulation principle, has an asymmetrical measuring range and is capable of high-resolution measurements of the casting surface (0.02 mm). Geometry specific parameters (flatness of the particular surface region, average deviation of the measured points and height of the surface defects) are calculated from the acquired surface data and then checked whether/how they fit within the tolerances specified in a technical documentation. The method has been tested in the laboratory by examination of a sample of castings taken randomly from the production process. A comparison of the results obtained by this method and by a qualified operator has shown good agreement.	gbr	IOP Publishing	2008	1.01	Measurement science & technology	1.493	1.044
1043295	Heat affected zone in surfacing chromium ledeburitic steel	Tools get failured during work; wear is a major factor that contributes to failures. Damaged tools are replaced or filed. This paper describes typical changes that occur in the heat affected zone of tool (HAZ), which was repaired by surfacing with a TIG and with micro-plasma procedure. Microstructure of the steel on the repaired tool was analysed by an optical and scanning electron microscope. The tool was made of chromium ledeburitic steel type W.N. 1.2379 and it was repaired by surfacing steel type W.N. 1.4718. Changes in the HAZ also depend on the type of surfacing. Besides microstructural changes, dissolution of carbides, especially primary carbides. This way the concentration of the carbide-forming elements and carbonis increased in the base around the primary carbides in the HAZ so the result is so-called secondary eutectic or secondary ledeburite.	hrv	Metalurški fakultet;Hrvatsko metalurško društvo	2010	1.01	Metalurgija	0.348	0.709
10438683	Influence of absorption mechanisms on laser-induced plasma plume	In modelling laser-induced plasma plume formation, the proper description of laser absorption in the plasma plays an important role. In the present model, absorption is described by means of three different mechanisms: inverse bremsstrahlung (IB), photoionization (PI) and absorption by small condensed clusters. Numerical solutions of the model are given for KrF laser beam irradiation (wavelength l=248 nm) impinging on a nickel target at various fluences. The influence of particular absorption mechanisms on the absorbed laser beam energy in the plasma plume during the pulse is shown for different fluences. Using all three absorption mechanisms, the calculated plasma properties show good agreement with the experimental results of other authors.	nld	North-Holland	2008	1.01	Applied Surface Science	1.576	1.081
10438939	Improved modelling of the loading spectra using a mixture model approach	In order to perform a fatigue-life analysis of structures the parameters of the structure loading spectra must be assessed. If the load time series are counted using a two-parametric rainflow counting method, the structure loading spectrum provides a probability for the occurrence of a load-cycle with certain amplitude and mean values. It is beneficial for the prediction of the fatigue life to describe the loading spectrum by a continuous function. We have previously discovered that mixtures of Gaussian probability density functions can be used to model the loading spectra. The main problems of this approach that have not been satisfactorily resolved before are related to the estimation of the number of components in the applied mixture models, and to the modelling of the load-cycle distributions with relatively fat tails. In this article, we describe a method for estimating the parameters of mixture models, which allows automatic determination of the number of components in a mixture model. The presented method is applied for modelling simulated and measured loading spectra using mixtures of the multivariate Gaussian or t probability density functions. In the article we also show that the mixture of t probability density functions sometimes better describes the loading spectra than the mixture of Gaussian probability density functions.	gbr	Butterworth Scientific Limited	2008	1.01	International journal of fatigue	1.556	0.986
10444571	Analysis of striation formation mechanism in abrasive water jet cutting	In this paper the macro-mechanism of abrasive water jet (AWJ) cutting is studied from the point of cutting front and striation formation analysis. The striation on the surface cut with AWJ is a characteristic phenomena which is strongly present when cutting with high traverse velocities for particular material type and thickness of workpiece. The connection between the cutting front step formation and striation formation is explained through series of experiments, which include visual observations of cutting transparent material and through analogies, which deal with river meandering and wear of pneumatic conveyor bends.	che	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Wear	1.509	0.986
10444633	Preserving commutativity	Every commutativity preserving linear map on the algebra of all ?$n \times n$? matrices over an algebraically closed field ?$F$? with characteristic 0 is either a Jordan automorphism multiplied by a nonzero constant and perturbed by a scalar type operator, or its image is commutative. The assumption of preserving commutativity can be reformulated as preserving zero Lie products. So, this theorem is an extension of the well-known result on the structure of Lie homomorphisms of matrix algebras. We first prove the result for the special case in which ?$F$? is the complex field and then apply the transfer principle in Model Theoretic Algebra to extend it to the general case.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Journal of Pure and Applied Algebra	0.428	0.48
10453593	On functional identities in prime rings with involution II	Let ?${\mathcal A}$? be a prime ring with involution ?$\ast$?, ?${\mathcal K}$? be its set of skew elements and ?${\mathcal R}$? be a noncentral Lie ideal of ?${\mathcal K}$?. Further, let ?${\mathcal Q}$? be the maximal right ring of quotients of ?${\mathcal A}$? and ?$E_i,F_i:{\mathcal R}^{m-1} \to {\mathcal Q}, \; i = 1,2,...,m$?, be maps. We study functional identities of the form ?$\sum_{i=1}^m\{E_i^i x_i + x_i F_i^i\} = 0$? for all ?$x_1,x_2,...,x_m \in {\mathcal R}$? (where ?$E_i^i$? means ?$E_i(x_1,...,\widehat{x}_i,...,x_m)$?, etc). In case ?${\mathcal A}$? does not satisfy the standard identity of degree ?$\le 4(m+1)$?, definitive results are obtained.	usa	M. Dekker.	2000	1.01	Communications in algebra	0.290	0.495
10454105	Applying the density theorem for derivations to range inclusion problems	The problem of when derivations (and their powers) have the range in the Jacobson radical is considered. The proofs are based on the density theorem for derivations.	pol	Pañstwowe Wydawnictwo Naukowe	2000	1.01	Studia Mathematica	0.477	0.495
10465564	EU enlargement and real economic convergence	This article presents an analysis of economic implications of the major EU enlargement in 2004. The research is based on sigma (s) and beta (b) convergence of per capita GDP among the 10 countries which joined the European Union in 2004. Our results confirm the existence of both types of convergence in the second half of the 1990s and the 2000s. Generally, the poorer new EU member states grew faster than the richer new EU member states. As a result, the income gap between these two groups of countries has narrowed although it still remains quite large. The convergence occurred at the rate of 4.2% during the period 1992-2006 and 7.0% and 9.6% during the sub-periods 1995-2006 and 2002-06 respectively.	gbr	Carfax	2010	1.01	Post-communist economies	0.362	1.022
10466076	Core Values, Culture and Ethical Climate as Constitutional Elements of Ethical Behaviour: Exploring Differences Between Family and Non-Family Enterprises	The research presented in this article aims to contribute both quantitatively and qualitatively to the discussion on family versus non-family businesses' differences in ethical core values, culture and ethical climate. The purpose of our article is to better understand the association between the degree of involvement of a family in an enterprise and its influence on the enterprise's core values, culture and ethical climate as the constitutional elements of enterprise ethical behaviour. The research indicates that family as well as non-family enterprises maintain positive attitudes towards the core values with ethical content. Regarding the type and strength of culture as well as the type of ethical climate, our research results indicate significant differences between family and non-family enterprises.	nld	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2010	1.01	Journal of business ethics	1.125	0.909
10470678	Belgrade vs. Serbia: spatial Re-configuration of belongign	This article explores the relationship between the nation, the city, narratives, and belonging in Serbia through an analysis of narratives of a set of 30 interviews with young Belgrade intellectuals aged 23-35. I argue that what appears to be emerging in post Milosevic Serbia is a new articulation and a new scale of belonging. Most of my informants are mobilising their city identities, moving from a national to an urban perspective. They imaginatively defend their city identity through a discourse that 'others' its newcomers, i.e. the rural residents. However, the article is critical of their articulated dichotomous rhetoric of 'Us, the City Cosmopolitans' vs. 'Them, the Rural Nationalists: My overall aim is to offer an analysis of the Serbian case, where one sees that the city of Belgrade has become a microcosm and a symbolic expression for modernity, resistance, openness and democracy. However, instead of seeing urbanity as the only locus of modernity, one needs to understand that urbanity does not one dimensionally lead to the urbanisation of the mind, implying that once you have cities, or live in a city, there is a specific urban, cosmopolitan experience.	gbr	Taylor&Francis	2005	1.01	Journal of ethnic and migration studies	0.485	0.41
10472470	Fairly linear mixed integer nonlinear programing model for the synthesis of mass exchange networks	A fairly linear optimization model for the synthesis of mass exchange networkshas been developed. Superstructure, detailed modeling equations, and solutions of example problems are presented. The predominantly linear character of the model can be kept as long as single-component mass exchange network synthesis problems and packed columns as mass exchangers are considered. At the cost of introducing nonlinear constraints, the optimizationmodel can be extended to handle multicomponent problems and stagedcolumns as well. The new model applies the key ideas of the simultaneous heat exchanger network synthesis model of Yee and Grossmann [Comput. Chem. Eng. 1990, 14 (10), 1165-1184].	nld	American Chemical Society	2006	1.01	Industrial & engineering chemistry research	1.518	0.921
10473499	Application of IR thermography as a measuring method to study heat transfer on rotating surface	This paper presents an experimental and CFD numerical study of convective heat transfer and flow field characteristics in a rotating environment. Surface temperature distribution on a rotating blade was measured by means of infrared thermography. The experimental facility, IR thermography method, and the CFD numerical model that was made according to the actual test rig geometry and operating conditions, are described in detail. For the present study, tests were carried out at relatively low fluid temperatures in several operating points, defined by rotational, Reynolds and hot-to-cool air mass flow ratio. Experimental and numerical results for the observed blade side are compared in terms of surface temperature distribution (2D) and 1D charts along the blade midspan. Temperature distributions are statistically evaluated and show very good agreement.	deu	VDI-Verlag GmbH	2008	1.01	Forschung im Ingenieurwesen	0.170	0.986
10483995	Numerical calculation of digital curve length by using anchored discrete convolution	The paper presents a new method introducing an anchored discrete convolution for calculating the length of a digital curve. The method is based on discrete convolution by using convolution masks and point anchoring in the pixel. The use of ordinary convolution distorts the curve shape and gives large errors in length calculation. The advantage of anchoring is that it limits the point shifting into the pixel during the calculation of the curve length. The method is applied to an analytical arc and various calculations are performed. In addition different methods from the literature were comparedand a real sample was tested.	gbr	Butterworth Scientific	2008	1.01	Image and vision computing	1.496	1.337
10484507	A study of the horizontal inertial forces acting on the suspended load of slewing cranes	When designing a crane's load-carrying structures, a static analysis is still central to a preliminary determination of the dimensions required. However, tobring the results of these calculations closer to reality, different quasi-static procedures are introduced. These procedures take account of various dynamic effects by means of appropriate coefficients. In this paper, anew procedure is proposed for determining the maximum horizontal inertial forces in a radial direction that are acting on a load suspended from the jib during a crane's slewing motion. Based on a previously developed and verified mathematical model of a general-type slewing crane, we undertook the following. Firstly, we verified that the horizontal inertial forces in the radial direction are of no less importance (no smaller in terms of their magnitude) than the forces in the tangential direction, and that their maximumvalues can easily be a few times greater than the nominal centrifugal force. Based on this we introduced a new coefficient of radial horizontal inertial force, and we calculated a diagram for the rapid determination of this coefficient. We also present a brief report of the horizontal inertial forces in the tangential direction.	gbr	Pergamon Press	2008	1.01	International journal of mechanical sciences	1.077	0.986
10486299	Introduction of laminated supporting tools in water jet incremental sheet metal forming	This contribution presents the introduction of laminated supporting tools in water jet incremental sheet metal forming (WJISMF) process. In WJISMF the maintool is a high-velocity water jet (WJ) instead of a rigid tool. The influence of the main tool trajectory on the forming outcome in WJISMF is observed and optimized in order to reduce the forming time and improve the product quality. Laminated tools are fabricated with abrasive water jet (AWJ) machining from aluminium plates of different thicknesses. The parts formed in this investigation are measured with a coordinate measuring machine (CMM) and results are compared by means of forming time, parts symmetry and achieved geometry, which is defined with the supporting tool.	gbr	IFS Publications	2008	1.01	International journal, advanced manufacturing technology	0.743	0.905
10488342	The synthesis of iron-nickel alloy nanoparticles using a reverse micelle technique	Nanosized Fe0.2Ni0.8 particles were prepared by reducing their salts with sodium borohydride (NaBH4) in cationic water-in-oil (w/o) microemulsions of water/cetyl-trimethyl-amonium bromide (CTAB) and n-butanol/isooctane at 25 °C.According to the TEM and X-ray diffraction analyses, the synthesized particles were around 4-12 nm in size. Due to their nanodimensions, the particles had a primitive cubic (pc) structure rather than the body-centered cubic (BCC) structure of the bulk material. An examination of the synthesis from the reverse micelle reveals that the morphology of the iron-nickel alloy nanoparticles depends mainly on the microemulsion`s composition. The magnetization of the nanoparticles was much lower than that of the bulk material, reflecting the influence of the nanodimensions on the particlesæ magnetizations.	nld	North-Holland Publishing Co	2006	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.212	1.659
10496539	Flow analysis through the centrifugal impeller of a vacuum cleaner unit	Flow through the centrifugal impeller of a vacuum cleaner unit was investigated. This was done using experimental measurements and numerical simulations. Two different operational points were selected for the experiment. Experiments were performed using flow visualization with the use of the passive seeding particles. The rotational speed was reduced by using the theory of dynamical similarity where water was used as a flow medium instead of air. Numerical simulations were performed by using compressible and incompressible fluids. Flow through impeller channels is presented as particle trajectories and relative velocities for experimental approach and as flow streamlines and relative velocities for numerical approach.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10496795	Development of a snake-like robot	This paper presents the development of a robot that mimics the movement of a live snake. A prototype robot comprising six links was constructed. Torque actuators between the links modify the robot's shape. Anisotropic friction between the links and the ground generates the force that propels the robot. Acontrol variable that determines actuator angles is used to achieve a wave-like body motion. The corresponding signal is transmitted over a radio link. Measurements of average velocity and trajectory of the robot were performed with different control parameters. Basic properties of the robot's movement are presented.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.04	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10497369	A continuation method for a weakly elliptic two-parameter eigenvalue problem	We show that the continuation method can be used to solve a weakly elliptic two-parameter eigenvalue problem. We generalize the continuation method for a nonsymmetric eigenvalue problem ?$Ax = \lambda x$? by T.Y. Li, Z. Zeng and L. Cong (1992 SIAM J. Numer. Anal. 29, 229-238) to two-parameter problems.	gbr	Oxford University Press	2001	1.01	IMA journal of numerical analysis	0.726	0.619
10497881	Extending holomorphic sections from complex subvarieties	Let ?$X$? be a Stein manifold and let ?$Y$?be a complex manifold which admits a spray. We prove that for every closed complex subvariety ?$X_0$? of ?$X$? and for every continuous map ?$f_0: X \to Y$? whose restriction to ?$X_0$? is holomorphic there exist a homotopy of maps ?$f_t: X \to Y$? ?$(0 \le t \le 1)$? whose restrictions to ?$X_0$? agree with ?$f_0$? and such that the map ?$f_1$? is holomorphic on ?$X$?. We obtain analogous results for sections of holomorphic submersions with local sprays over Stein spaces.	deu	Springer-Verlag	2001	1.01	Mathematische Zeitschrift	0.597	0.48
10498075	Teleoperation of SCARA with neural network based controller	This paper describes the development of neural network based controller for the teleoperation of Selective Compliance Assembly Robot Arm (SCARA). The SCARA is controlled and teleoperated via the internet. Presented experiment isused by students at the University of Maribor as a remote educational tool. Application is based on MATLAB/Simulink and LabVIEW software packages. MATLAB/Simulink and developed library DSP-2 Library for Simulink are used for neural network control algorithm development, simulation and code generation. The executable code is downloaded to the Digital Signal Processor (DSP). The DSP controls through the analog and digital I/O the real process and maintain the data connection with the laboratory server. The LabVIEW virtual instrument(VI) is used as a client server application for the teleoperation. LabVIEW VI provides the ability for parameter tuning, signal monitoring, on-line analysis and via Remote Panels technology also teleoperation by using the internet browser (Internet Explorer). The main advantage of a neural network controller is the exploitation of its self-learning capability. For example: when friction or an unexpected disturbance occurs, the user of a remote application does not need any information about the changed robot dynamics, because it is estimated independently of the remote user.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10504219	Virtual environments for dynamically reconfigurable Concurrent/Collaborative Engineering ""virtual"" teams	The paper presents a hypothesis, and its experimental validation, on virtual environments, i.e. Virtual Reality based interfaces, which hide the real appearance of their interlocutors, as enablers, or facilitators, of performance of dynamically reconfigurable ""virtual"" teams in ConcurrentžCollaborative Engineering. Design teamsæ dynamic reconfiguration may either be a need for (1) their structural and functional optimization (e.g. for improving their productivity) or (2) to support dissipatedness of the design teams in Chaordic Manufacturing Systems. The effect that virtual environments have on reducing the ""set-up"" time when switching from one interlocutor to another during the communication process is evaluated. The proof of the hypothesis is presented through a statistical evaluation of the experiment.	che	Technische Rundschau;Hallwag Verlag;Colibri	2008	1.01	CIRP annals	1.123	0.905
10504475	Pit clustering in cavitation erosion	An investigation of the erosion effects of cavitation on a thin aluminium foil was made. Cavitation was generated in a small tank with capacity of about 500 ml of clean water. The growth and collapse of bubbles was triggered by means of ultrasound. The sustained damage was measured by evaluating the area of the damaged surface in time intervals of 4 s. Also the length of the boundary between the damaged and the undamaged surface and the characteristic pit/hole size were measured. The goal of the study was to investigate the phenomenon of pit clustering within the incubation period and the influence of the already eroded surface on appearance of new pits. Additionally, the possibility of self-amplification of the erosion due to the presence of small deformations (pits) was studied.	che	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Wear	1.509	0.986
10505755	Improved surface roughness as a result of free-form surface machining using self-organized neural network	This paper is concerned with the free-form surface reorganization and assessment of a free-form model complexity, grouping particular surface geometrical properties within patch boundaries using self-organized Kohonen neural network (SOKN). Coordinate values of point cloud distributed at a particular surface were used as a surface properties descriptor, which was fedinto SOKN where representative neurons for curvature, slope and spatial surface properties were established. On the basis of this approach, the surface patch boundaries were reorganized in such a manner that the finished machining strategies gave the best possible surface roughness results. The patch boundaries were constructed in accordance with the Gaussian and mean curvature, in order to achieve a smooth transition between patches, and in this way, preserve or even improve the desired curve and surface continuities (C2 and G2). It is shown that by reorganization of the boundaries in respect of curvature, slope and spatial point distribution, the surface quality of the finished free-form surface is improved. This approach was experimentally verified on 22 free-form models which were reorganized by SOKN and machined with finish milling tool-path strategies. The results show rather good improvement of the mean surface roughness profile Ra for reorganized surfaces, when compared with unorganized surfaces.	gbr	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Journal of materials processing technology	1.143	0.905
10506841	Embedding products of low-dimensional manifolds into R [sup] m	Let ?$X$? be a Cartesian product of ?$s$? circles, ?$p$? orientable 2-manifolds, ?$q$? non-orientable 2-manifolds, ?$r$? orientable 3-manifolds and ?$t$? non-orientable 3-manifolds (all of them are closed). We prove that if either some of these ?$r$? orientable 3-manifolds embed into ?$\RR^4$? or ?$q>0$? or ?$t>0$? or ?$p>0$? or ?$s>0$?, then the lowest dimension of Euclidean space in which ?$X$? is smoothly embeddable, is ?$s+2p+3(q+r)+4t+1$?.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Topology and its Applications	0.280	0.48
10507097	On embeddability of contractible k-dimensional compacta into R [sup] 2k	We present, for any ?$k \in \NN$?, an elementary construction of a contractible ?$k$?-dimensional compactum which does not embed into ?$\RR^{2k}$?.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Topology and its Applications	0.280	0.48
1050729	The International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) in vocational rehabilitation and disability assessment in Slovenia	Objective. This study illustrates the use of the ICF in vocational rehabilitation and disability assessment in Slovenia. Method. A review of the Slovenian law about vocational rehabilitation was performed. A survey was developed and group and individual interviews were conducted with professionals involved in vocational rehabilitation who use the ICF. Results. The vast majority of the respondents believe that ICF helps to create a commonlanguage for multidisciplinary communication. The main advantages of theICF identified by the respondents are that it provides a holistic view of the person, assesses complexities of functioning, provides a unified language and offers a quick and easy insight into functioning. The disadvantages of ICF are complicated terminology and subjectivity of the assessor. A difficulty encountered by the users is that by law, only body functions of the ICF are assessed. Additional qualitative analysis of the users' understanding of ICF and its purpose revealed heterogeneity. Significant differences between public and private organisations were found. Conclusion. ICF is a promising tool for use in vocational rehabilitation and disability assessment in Slovenia. A major challenge is the lack of interface between ICF and policies on vocational rehabilitation in Slovenia.	gbr	Taylor & Francis	2011	1.01	Disability and rehabilitation	1.498	1.201
10511643	An improved three-dimensional coupled fluid-structure model for Coriolis flowmeters	The paper presents a coupled numerical model built to simulate the operation of Coriolis flowmeters, which exploit the alteration of the vibration mode shape of the measuring tube for the mass flow rate measurement. The explained measuring effect is a consequence of the interaction between the motion of thetube, vibrating at its natural frequency, and the fluid flow in it. The numerical model is realized by coupling of a finite volume (FV) code for fluid flow analysis with a finite element (FE) code for structural analysis using the conventional staggered solution procedure, with added inner iterations to achieve strong coupling. The simulation algorithm is divided into two steps. A free vibration of the measuring tube considered in the firststep is complemented in the second step, after the numerical free vibration response is properly stabilized, with the harmonic excitation force actuating the measuring tube at its resonant frequency of several hundreds of Hertz to resemble the operation of actual Coriolis flowmeters. Different scenarios using zero-order or three-point fluid load predictor and soft application of the fluid load in the initial stages of the simulation are compared to yield a simulation strategy, which will minimize the time needed to obtain the stabilized steady-state response of the vibrating measuring tube. The proposed simulation procedure was applied on a straight-tube Coriolis flowmeter and used for the estimation of the velocity profile effect.The results exhibit sufficient stability (low scatter) to be used for the estimation of sensitivity variations of order of magnitude around tenths of a percent.	gbr	Academic Press	2008	1.01	Journal of fluids and structures	1.380	0.986
10511899	Generalized renewal process for repairable systems based on finite Weibull mixture	Repairable systems can be brought to one of possible states following a repair. These states are: 'as good as new', 'as bad as old' and 'better than old but worse than new'. The probabilistic models traditionally used to estimate the expected number of failures account for the first two states, butthey do not properly apply to the last one, which is more realistic in practice. In this paper, a probabilistic model that is applicable to all of the three after-repair states, called generalized renewal process (GRP), is applied. Simplistically, GRP addresses the repair assumption by introducing the concept of virtual age into the stochastic point processes to enable them to represent the full spectrum of repair assumptions. The shape of measured ordesign life distributions of systems can vary considerably, and therefore frequently cannot be approximated by simple distribution functions. The scope of the paper is to prove that a finite Weibull mixture, with positive component weights only, can be used as underlying distribution of the time to first failure (TTFF) of the GRP model, on condition that the unknown parameters can be estimated. To support the main idea, three examples are presented. In order to estimate the unknown parameters of the GRP model with m-fold Weibull mixture, the EM algorithm is applied. The GRP model with m mixture components distributions is compared to the standard GRP model based on two-parameter Weibull distribution by calculating the expected number of failures. It can be concluded that the suggested GRP model with Weibull mixture with an arbitrary but finite number of components is suitable for predicting failures based on the past performance of the system.	gbr	Elsevier Applied Science	2008	1.01	Reliability engineering & systems safety	1.379	1.018
1051241	Functioning and disability in stroke	Purpose. To describe functioning and disability in patients with stroke according to the model endorsed by the International Classification of Functioning Disability and Health (ICF) in a rehabilitation hospital. Methods.Adult patients with stroke were consecutively enrolled. The FunctionalIndependence Measure (FIM) and the WHO Disability Assessment Schedule II (WHO-DAS II) were administered in individual sessions. ICF checklist was applied on the basis of medical documentation and rehabilitationteam meetings. Descriptive analyses were performed to report on FIM and WHO-DAS II scores. ICF categories reported as a problem by more than 20% of patients were described in detail. Results. Patients (197 in total) were mainly men, aged about 60, with average FIM score of 75. Within ICF Body Functions component 32 categories were applied in at least 20% of the patients, 5 within Body Structures, 27 within Activities and Participation and 7 within Environmental Factors. Conclusions. ICF represents a new integrative tool to help professionals dealing with stroke. The checklist captures the various sequels of stroke in terms of impairments, activity limitations and participation restrictions. It shows the extensive need for rehabilitation, whereby it facilitates consideration of the patient' needs.	gbr	Taylor & Francis	2010	1.01	Disability and rehabilitation	1.489	1.126
1051497	Integrating research into policy planning	MHADIE project (Measuring Health and Disability in Europe: Supporting policy development) aimed at developing realistic, evidence-based and effective national policies for persons with disabilities. A preliminary step towards this goal was the demonstration on the feasibility of employing the ICF in clinical, educational and statistical fields, which corresponds to the recognised need to enhance the European Union's capacity of analysis of disability, as highlighted in its Disability Action Plan 2006-2007. The ultimate outcome of the project is the production of 13 policy recommendations, dealing with statistics clinical and educational areas, and four general policy recommendations focusing on: (a) the need of coordinating and integrating disability conceptualisation at all policy levels and across sectors; (b) the need of conducing longitudinal cohort studies which include children aged 0-6; (c) the need of reviewing transportation policies inlight of the requirements of persons with disabilities; (d) the need of reviewing all disability policies to emphasise and support the role of the family, which is a consistent and substantial environmental facilitator in the lives of persons with disabilities.	gbr	Taylor & Francis	2010	1.02	Disability and rehabilitation	1.489	1.126
10516502	A new cuticle scale hydrolysing protease from Beauveria brongniartii	From a screening for the production of new proteases specific for cuticle scales, Beauveria brongniartii was selected producing an alkaline Ca++ dependent protease. The purified had a molecular weight of 27 kDa and a pI value of 8.0. Substrate specificities of model substrates (wool with partiallyremoved cuticles treated with SDS) were analyzed by protein release, dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and nitrogen analysis. The CžN ratio of released material turned out to be a good parameter to determine the site of action of proteases on fibres. Compared to other enzymes, the fungal protease preferentially hydrolyzed cuticle scales and has thus a potential for anti-shrinking pre-treatment of wool fabrics.	deu	Science and Technology Letters	2006	1.01	Biotechnology letters	1.134	2.589
1051753	A method for selection of appropriate assistive technology for computer acces	Assistive technologies (ATs) for computer access enable people with disabilities to be included in the information society. Current methods for assessment and selection of the most appropriate AT for each individual are nonstandardized, lengthy, subjective, and require substantial clinical experience of a multidisciplinary team. This manuscript presents and evaluates an objective approach to test and select an appropriate AT for computer access for people with disabilities. Six user interfaces (standard keyboard, mini and large joystick, mini and large trackball, and head-operatedmouse and keyboard) were tested on the control group of 29 peoplewithout disabilities and on 63 people with neuromuscular and muscular diseases, using purpose-built software for testing the speed of sentence typing. Different criteria for selecting the optimal AT were tested and compared with the skilled clinician's choice. The learning curves of the people with disabilities proved to follow those of the healthy controls, but with lower performance. Daily computer use was not associated with AT selection, but corresponded nearly perfectly to the level of functional ability of upper limbs. Agreement between clinician's choice and learning-based AT selection was noteworthy, but far from perfect. If partial agreement was taken into account, that is, AT was considered as an ordinal variable based on the corresponding functional ability level, and the second best learning-based choice was taken into account, the agreement was high for highest median typing speed as AT selection criterion. In conclusion, the developed method for AT assessment and selection seems to be an efficient guide for an unskilled clinician to choose an appropriate AT.	usa	Lipincott Williams & Wilkins	2010	1.01	International journal of rehabilitation research	1.192	1.126
10517782	Numerical analysis of injection characteristics using biodiesel fuel	This paper deals with numerical analysis of injection process using biodieselžmineral diesel fuel blends with the aim to search for the potentialsto reduce engine harmful emissions. The considered fuels are neat biodiesel from rapeseed oil and its blends with mineral diesel D2. For the numerical analysis a one-dimensional mathematical model is employed. In order to model accurately the investigated fuels, the employed empirical expressionsfor their properties are determined by experiments. To verify the mathematical model and the empirical expressions, experiments and numerical simulation are run on a mechanical control diesel fuel injection M system at several operating regimes. Injection process at many different operating regimes and using several fuel blends are then investigated numerically. Attention is focused on the injection characteristics, especially on fuelling,fuelling at some stage of injection, mean injection rate, mean injection pressure, injection delay and injection timing, which influence the most important engine characteristics. The analysis of the obtained results reveals that, while keeping engine performance within acceptable limits, harmful emissions can be reduced by adjusting appropriately pump injection timing in dependence on the biodiesel content. This prediction is also confirmed experimentally.	gbr	Elsevier	2006	1.01	Fuel	1.358	0.921
1052009	Validation of the ""World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule, WHODAS-2"" in patients with chronic diseases	Background: The WHODAS-2 is a disability assessment instrument based on the conceptual framework of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health (ICF). It provides a global measure of disability and 7 domain-specific scores. The aim of this study was to assess WHODAS-2 conceptual model and metric properties in a set of chronic and prevalent clinical conditions accounting for a wide scope of disability in Europe. Methods: 1,119 patients with one of 13 chronic conditions were recruited in 7 European centres. Participants were clinically evaluated and administered the WHODAS-2 and the SF-36 at baseline, 6 weeks and 3 months of follow-up. The latent structure was explored and confirmed by factor analysis (FA). Reliability was assessed in terms of internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha) and reproducibility (intra-class correlation coefficients, ICC). Construct validity was evaluated by correlating the WHODAS-2 and SF-36 domains, and comparing known groups based on the clinicalseverity and work status. Effect size (ES) coefficient was used to assess responsiveness. To assess reproducibility and responsiveness, subsamples of stable (at 6 weeks) and improved (after 3 moths) patients were defined, respectively, according to changes in their clinical-severity. Results: The satisfactory FA goodness of fit indexes confirmed a second order factor structure with 7 dimensions, and a global score for the WHODAS-2. Cronbach's alpha ranged from 0.77 (self care) to 0.98 (life activities: work or school), and the ICC was lower, but achieved the recommended standard of 0.7 for four domains. Correlations between global WHODAS-2 score and the different domains of the SF-36 ranged from -0.29 to -0.65. Most of the WHODAS-2 scores showed statistically significant differences among clinical-severity groups for all pathologies, and between working patients and those not working due to ill health (p < 0.001). Among the subsample of patients who had improved, responsiveness coefficients were small to moderate (ES = 0.3-0.7), but higher than those of the SF-36. Conclusions: The latent structure originally designed by WHODAS-2 developers has been confirmed for the first time, and it has shown good metric properties in clinic and rehabilitation samples. Therefore, considerable support is provided to the WHODAS-2 utilization as an international instrument to measure disability based on the ICF model.	gbr	BioMed Central	2010	1.01	Health and quality of life outcomes	1.860	1.579
1052296	The effect of beta-glucanase alone and in combination with xylanase on the nutritive value of diets based on barley of low or high viscosity in broiler chickens	An experiment was conducted to study the effect of [beta]-glucanase alone and in combination with xylanase on energy value, nutirent utilization and intestinal viscosity in broiler chickens fed with diets based on barley of low or high viscosity. Barley samples were selected out of ten samples collected from different regions in Slovenia, according to the most different extract viscosity. A total of 48 twentyone-day old, individually caged, male broiler chicks were used in balance experiments. The animals received one of the barley based diets prepared with one of the two barley samples. Both diets remained unsupplemented or were either supplemented with [beta]-glucanase alone (160 [beta]GU/kg) or [beta]-glucanse and xylanase (160 [beta]GU/kg + 2800 XU/kg). The results of the experiment confirmed the improvement in nutrient utilization (dry matter, nitrogen), in terms of an increase in the energy value of the feed and in reduction of intestinal viscosity, resulting from the addition of enzymes. Hovewer, the results also clearly showed diffrences between the two barley samples based diets in their response to different enzyme treatments, where only diets based on high extract viscosity barley showed significant results. Futhermore, the results clearly indicated that in order to achieve significant improvement in the dry matter, nitrogen and energy utilization of barley based diets, the addition of [beta]-glucanase alone was not always sufficient. As a consequence, the combination of both [beta]-glucanase and xylanase may be advised.	deu	Ulmer	2000	1.01	Archiv für Geflügelkunde	0.374	0.627
10523675	Influence of blade deformation on integral characteristic of axial flow fan	Axial flow fan blades deform during operation due to the various forces that act on them. That is why, we can ask ourselves about the influence of the blade deformation on the integral and local characteristics. In the paper, we present a study of influence of axial flow fan blade deformation. The paper deals with measurements of the blade deformation at the known integral working conditions. Results - deformations of fan blade tip were used for numerical study of the influence of the changed blade form on the fan's aerodynamic characteristic. Fan integral characteristics were measured in accordance with the ISO-DIS 5801:2006 standard and were carried out on the wind tunnel of the Hidria Institute Klima, Godovie. Other measurements of the blade deformation were done on the measuring station on the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, University of Ljubljana, with the help of computer aided visualization. Deformations were measured in three working points, whichwere defined with fan integral parameters. Results of the measurements helped to determine modified form of the blade, which was then used for the numerical simulation for the same fan integral parameters. The study of deformation influence, based on the numerical simulation, was carried out.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10523931	The performance and mechanisms of DLC-coated surfaces in contact with steel in boundary-lubrication conditions	The importance of hard coatings in mechanical applications has been increasing rapidly for more than 20 years. The development of novel coatings, such as improved ceramic, diamond-like-carbon and advanced nano-composites, has promoted scientific research in the field of tribology and surface engineering, and at the same time it has focussed attention on micro- and nano-technologies. Diamond-like-carbon (DLC) coatings are becoming one of the most promising types of hard coatings. Their main advantages are low friction,good anti-wear properties, and adhesive protection. However, due to their low surface energy their reactivity with conventional oils and additivesis limited and remains unsatisfactory. For a qualitative step-change that would improve the performance and allow effective optimising and tailoring of boundary-lubricated DLC contacts for various mechanical systems it is necessary to understand the mechanisms of why, how, under which conditions, and with which types of DLC coatings and lubricants the actual boundary lubrication is possible. As a result of ten years of research in this field, a lot of data have been reported: however, due to the different types of coatings, lubricants and additives used in these studies, the results are often difficult to compare and are sometimes contradictory. As a result of the recent heavy demand from many industries to apply DLC coatings to lubricated systems, a much better understanding of these phenomena and their overall performance is required. Therefore, if we wish to see a more effective continuation of the research and a better understanding of the scattered results, an overview of the current state of the art of lubricated DLC contacts is needed. In this paper we analyse the performance and suggested boundary-lubrication mechanisms of DLC/steel contacts from already-published studies and we summarise our present understanding of the boundary lubrication in DLC/steel contacts, which complements our recent analyses of DLC/DLC contacts.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.02	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10524187	Quality and cost in production management process	The paper presents an overview of the approaches usually used in production process, specific in planning and control. The goal is to supply ""the big picture"" of the methods and techniques often met in the entire production process, including the planning and control phases. Thus, some important concepts and techniques like Six Sigma, Concurrent Engineering (CE), Quality Function Deployment (QFD), Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and Reverse Engineering (RE) are briefly described, together with techniques and methods for reducing the value of the lead time. The description is sustained by diagrams showing the flow of the activities involved in each method.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.02	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10526235	Dispersion of an optodynamic wave during its multiple transitions in a rod	A rod acquires linear momentum during a short-laser-pulse ablation of its front face. Initially, this momentum is localized within the propagating laser-induced mechanical pulse-the optodynamic wave-while later it is gradually transferred to the uniform motion of the entire rod. Among other effects, the dispersion of the optodynamic wave due to lateral inertia plays an important role in the linear-momentum transformation mechanism. We observed the dispersion using interferometric measurements of the rod's rear-end staircaselike displacement. The displacements calculated using an analytical solution of Love's equation for a laser-ablated free-free homogeneous rod agree well with our measured data.	usa	American Institute of Physics.	2008	1.01	Applied physics letters	3.726	2.251
10527577	A note on constrained convergence	The entrywise convergence of the constrained powers ?$PA^nQ$? of matrices is investigated. A new proof of the characterization of convergence, obtained recently by R.E. Hartwig and P. Šemrl [Rocky Mt. J. Math. 29 (1) (1999) 177], is presented. As an importand tool we use a theorem from the theory of Diophantine approximation.	usa	North Holland	2001	1.01	Linear Algebra and its Applications	0.423	0.619
10528345	On minimal solutions of the matrix equation AX-BY=0	In the case when one of the ranks of matrices ?$A$? or ?$B$? is full, all self-adjoint pairs of solutions of the equation ?$AX-YB=0$? are given. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of nonnegative and positive definite solutions are proved. Without any conditions on ranks and with a given solution ?$X$?, it is shown that maximal and minimal solutions for ?$Y$? do not exist in nontrivial case. It is also proved that the minimal nonnegative solution ?$Y$? exists. An explicit formula for this solution is given.	usa	North Holland	2001	1.01	Linear Algebra and its Applications	0.423	0.619
10528601	Symmetries of hexagonal molecular graphs on the torus	Symmetric properties of some molecular graphs on the torus are studied. In particular we determine which cubic cyclic Haar graphs are 1-regular, which is equivalent to saying that their line graphs are 1/2-arc-transitive. Although these symmetries make all vertices and all edges indistinguishable, they imply intrinsic chirality of the corresponding molecular graph.	hrv	Hrvatsko kemijsko društvo	2000	1.01	Croatica chemica acta	0.701	1.544
10528795	Impact of Young's modulus degradation on springback calculation in steel sheet drawing	The aim of the paper is to demonstrate, based on the results of respective numerical simulations of a drawing process, how springback of a steel sheet drawn part is affected by stiffness degradation, which results from the material damage evolved during the forming process. For the purpose of the presented paper the GTN (Gurson-Tvergaard-Needleman) damage constitutive modelcoupled with Mori-Tanaka approach has been implemented in ABAQUS/Explicitvia VUMAT user material subroutine, while integration of the constitutive model is performed with a numerical scheme developed recently by the authors. Parameters of the constitutive model are identified, for authenticity of the paper, from the measurement data obtained from classical tensile tests of cold rolled stainless steel EN 1.4301, as well as from the measured stiffness degradation, as a function of the plastic strain. From a comparative analysis of numerical results of the springback behaviour, investigated on the Demeri springback cup test under assumption of different constitutive models, it can be concluded, that stiffness degradation should be incorporated in simulations of sheet metal forming. Its influence on a predicted final shape of a steel sheet drawn part is namely too significant tobe neglected.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10529051	CAM algorithm as important element by achieving of good machined surface quality	The paper deals with test of four different NC programs created by 4 different CAM algorithms using identical settings. The subsequent experimental verification has resulted in a conclusion that arrangement of the points on the tool path does have influence on the machining time and finish surface quality.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10529307	The analysis of complex tribological system of single point incremental sheet metal forming - SPIF	In contemporary industrial production the ecological aspects have increasingly important role in selection of sheet metal forming process. To produce sheet metal parts with minimal environmental burdening the shortening of forming processes including the procedures for production of appurtenant forming tools as well as decrease use of lubricant is prerequisite. In general, majority of the sheet metal forming processes demand use of lubricants with oils involving additives, which are hazardous for several reasons. Therefore, the paper is focused towards the analysis of different manners of lubrication (dry contact, liquid lubricant and hard coatings) and to investigate tribological properties during a single point incremental forming (SPIF) technology, which is nowadays very attractive and manly used for small and medium batch production. The first phase of the evaluation was performed on a model test rig by simulating single point incremental forming process, where the coefficient of friction was recorded and compared as a function of lubrication method used. In addition, the paper presents the forming tool temperature measurements for three different manners of lubrication, arising from friction during the single point incremental formingof the pyramid-shaped part.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10529558	Dioxins and dioxin-like persistent organic pollutants in textiles and chemicals in the textile sector	Over ?$7x10^5$? tons of dyestuff is produced annually with more than 100.000 commercially available dyes. Synthesis of colorants involves a relatively large group of chemicals with complex syntheses. During the synthesis of colorants, highly toxic, cancerogenic and persistent organic compounds, such as dioxins, can be formed. Dioxins are related to halogenes, chlorine and bromine homologues being the most toxic and persistent. About 40% of globally used colorants contain organically bound chlorine. The use of colorants in textile industry, with their wide applications and complex chemistry could be a significant source of dioxins and/or precursor compounds for the formation of dioxins and other persistent organic pollutants. The aim of the paper is to give an overview of the dioxin-like compounds in chemicals, with emphasis on colorants, textiles and their fate in the environment.	hrv	Hrvatsko kemijsko društvo	2006	1.02	Croatica chemica acta	0.778	2.094
10529563	Robust design of forming processes	Properties of raw materials (sheet metal, bars, etc.) used in forming processes are not constant. Other input parameters of forming system (friction conditions, machine settings, temperature, etc.) also scatter considerably during production. Improvement of production processes has always been an important goal in metal forming industry. The aim is to develop cost effective and stabile forming processes where the number of non-conforming products (scrap) is reduced to the minimum. In the first part of the paper an approach is described which enables the user to predict how the scatter of input parameters would influence the final properties of the products. In the second part of the paper the developed approach is used for optimization of forming process with respect to uncontrollable scatter of input parameters with the aim of minimizing scrap ratio. Optimization is basedon the use of numerical simulations, response surface methodology and stochastic optimization. It can be performed in the early stage of the production process development cycle. The presented approach was successfully applied in industrial environment during development of technology for forming of various work pieces.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10530587	Optodynamic monitoring of laser micro-drilling of glass by using a laser probe	We present a new method for monitoring of the laser micro-drilling process. The method is based on detection of acoustic waves in air above the processed sample using a laser beam deflection probe (LBDP). We present an augmentation of the experimental set-up by means of a digital micrographic system which enables the acquisition of images of the plasma plume and of the hole cross-section during a drilling sequence. Comparing the acquired images with the detected LBDP signals, we examine the drilling process from a new perspective.	deu	Springer	2008	1.01	Applied physics	1.884	1.953
10530838	Use of the cell method for plane elastic problems in geotechnique	In the present work the use of the cell method (CM) for analysing geotechnicalproblems will be discussed. The essence of this method is a discrete formulation instead of a differential formulation. On the basis of this CM a computer code was developed which can be used to study the settlements related to a superficial load of an elastic multilayered soil system. With an adequate graphical support it is possible to illustrate the stress-strain state within the studied area. After an explanation of the basesof the CM an example of a simple geotechnical problem shall be presented.The problem will be limited to a two-dimensional strain state in an elastic field. The final results will be compared with the FEM analysis.	nld	Elsevier	2003	1.01	Computational materials science	1.003	1.229
10530843	Analysis of sonic waves generated during laser engraving of printed circuits	We present an experiment where sonic waves generated during the laser engraving of printed circuit boards (PCB) were acquired and analyzed. The sonic waves were detected simultaneously using a microphone and a laser beam deflection probe. An efficient windowed peak-to-peak signal processing algorithm was developed to examine the relation between the detected signals and the engraving quality. The results of signal analysis were compared to the engraving surface topography, measured by means of optical microscopy with extended depth-of-field digital photography. The results show that it is possible to distinguish between shallow, good, and burnt engravings by examination of the acquired sonic signals. This observation opens the possibility of automated monitoring or even control of the process of laser engraving PCBs using sonic wave detection.	gbr	IFS Publications	2009	1.01	International journal, advanced manufacturing technology	1.128	1.067
10533142	[Beta]-cyclodextrin as a retarding reagent in polyacrylonitrile dyeing	ß-Cyclodextrin was tested as a dye complexing agent - as a dye retardant in the dyeing of PAN fibres with cationic dyes. Significant improvement of colouruniformity and some improvements in colour depth were observed when PAN fibres were dyed in the presence of ß-cyclodextrin as compared to dyeing in the presence of a commercial retardant.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Dyes and pigments	2.796	0.674
10535708	Diagonal cumulation of origin as the EU's institutional incentive mechanism for promoting international trade and business	In this paper we explore the effects of a diagonal cumulation of origin as the EU's Common Commercial Policy (CCP) incentive mechanism that affects the intraregional trade and transaction cost structure of firms engaged in cross-border business operation. The research explores how firms should frame their cross-border physical flows of goods and the configuration of their value-adding processes for taking advantage of diagonal cumulation of origin. The empirical analysis is based on an in-depth case study of effects of the 'SAP+ diagonal cumulation of origin' on changes in the transaction cost structure of a selected Slovenian firm operating within the household-appliance sector in one of the Western Balkan Countries. Based on eligibility of local subsidiary for using origin of goods in its import/exporttransactions the cost calculations were made for its products and then three different business scenarios were developed for showing the effects of the mechanism on transaction cost changes of a firm. The paper concludes that, at the conceptual level, the mechanism of diagonal cumulation of origin may serve as an effective institutional cross-border trade-promoting tool.	hrv	Sveuèilište u Rijeci, Ekonomski fakultet	2010	1.01	Zbornik radova Ekonomskog fakulteta u Rijeci	0.111	1.022
10543643	Formation of linear momentum in a rod during a laser pulse-matter interaction	Recently, we developed an optodynamic experimental technique that makes it possible to measure the linear momentum obtained by a metal target sample in the shape of a rod during a nanosecond laser pulse interaction in the ablativeregime. The height of the rodæs rear end axial step-like displacement,caused by the first reflection of the laser-generated ultrasonic wave, is proportional to the linear momentum acquired by the rod. In comparison with commonly used ballistic methods, we can determine the acquiredmomentum on a much shorter time scale corresponding to the wave transition time, from the front to the rear end of the rod. Using this method we investigated the ambient air pressure dependence on the formation of linearmomentum over a laser intensity range, from the ablation threshold to values about ten times higher. Steel rods of various diameters were used to demonstrate the effect of an expanding blast wave which delivers additional momentum to the target, when the laser beam on the target surface is smaller than the target itself. The typical value of the acquired target momentum is on the order of mN/s and 10 mNs/J for the momentum coupling coefficient.	deu	Springer	2008	1.01	Applied physics	1.884	1.953
10549081	Semisymmetry of generalized Folkman graphs	A regular edge- but not vertex-transitive graph is said to be semisymmetric. The study nof semisymmetric graphs was initiated by Folkman, who, among others, gave constructions of several infinite families such. In this paper a generalization of his construction for orders a multiple of 4 is proposed, giving rise to some new families of semisymmetric graphs. In particular, one associated with the cyclic group of order ?$n$?, ?$n \ge 5$?, which belongs to the class of tetracirculants, that is, graphs admitting an automorphism with precisely four orbits, all of same length. Semisymmetry properties of tetracirculants are investigated in greater detail, leading to a classification of all semisymmetric graphs of order ?$4p$?, ?$p$? is a prime.	gbr	Academic Press	2001	1.01	European journal of combinatorics	0.335	0.48
10549531	Measurements of cavitation bubble dynamics based on a beam-deflection probe	We present an optodynamic measurement of a laser-induced cavitation bubble and its oscillations based on a scanning technique using a laser beam-deflection probe. The deflection of the beam was detected with a fast quadrant photodiode which was built into the optical probe. The applied experimental setup enabled us to carry out one- or two-dimensional scanning of the cavitation bubble, automatic control of the experiment, data acquisition and data processing. Shadow photography was used as a comparative method during the experiments.	deu	Springer	2008	1.01	Applied physics	1.884	1.953
10549782	Two-dimensional velocity-vorticity based LES for the solution of natural convection in a differentially heated enclosure by wavelet transform based BEM and FEM	A wavelet transform based boundary element method (BEM) numerical scheme is proposed for the solution of the kinematics equation of the velocity-vorticityformulation of Navier-Stokes equations. FEM is used to solve the kinetics equations. The proposed numerical approach is used to perform two-dimensional vorticity transfer based large eddy simulation on grids with 105 nodes. Turbulent natural convection in a differentially heated enclosure of aspect ratio 4 for Rayleigh number values Ra=107-109 is simulated. Unstable boundary layer leads to the formation of eddies in the downstream parts of both vertical walls. At the lowest Rayleigh number value an oscillatory flow regime is observed, while the flow becomes increasingly irregular, non-repeating, unsymmetric and chaotic at higher Rayleigh number values. The transition to turbulence is studied with time series plots, temperature-vorticity phase diagrams and with power spectra. The enclosure is found to be only partially turbulent, what is qualitatively shown with second order statistics-Reynolds stresses, turbulent kinetic energy, turbulent heat fluxes and temperature variance. Heat transfer is studied via the average Nusselt number value, its time series and its relationship to the Rayleigh number value.	gbr	Elsevier	2006	1.01	Engineering analysis with boundary elements	0.883	0.746
10551835	Optimisation of direct laser structuring of printed circuit boards	A model-based optimisation of the process of printed circuit board laser structuring is presented. For this purpose, a comprehensive theoretical model of the interaction between the travelling pulsed laser beam and conductive layer, as well as between the laser beam and the induced plasma plume is employed. The model is used to calculate process speed. Based on the process speed determined, the influence of pulse power, duration, and frequency on process speed is analysed. In addition, an optimal range of process parameters with respect to process speed and quality is defined.	nld	North-Holland	2008	1.01	Applied Surface Science	1.576	1.081
10552091	Parameter identification of the fatique-testing rig	In this paper the dynamic parameter identification of the novel fatigue-testing rig is presented. The applied identification method assumes a priori a simple dynamical model for which parameters are identified through free and forced vibration tests. The rig is comprised of two base excited oscillators providing the dynamic excitation for a fatigue sample and two pneumatic actuators preventing a loss of contact between the oscillators and the sample. The actuators introduce strong nonlinearities. All parameters of the system apart from the pneumatic actuators identified through the free vibration tests using the linear model were in a good agreement with those obtained by the frequency analysis. Two models, a linear and the nonlinear with Coulomb friction, were dynamically interrogated by a random excitation. It was shown that the stiffness coefficient a, increases linearly with the pressure in the pneumatic cylinders, and the viscous damping coefficient b increases quadratically with the air pressure in the pneumatic cylinders. The predicted responses for the linear and nonlinear models correlate well with the experimental data.	gbr	Pergamon Press	2008	1.01	International journal of mechanical sciences	1.077	0.986
10558235	Predicting order lead times	Entering on market, companies confront with different problems. But the largest problems of today's time are too long lead times of orders. A client that wants a particular product to be made will select the best bidder considering on delivery time. To make a bid just on the basis of experience of employees is very risky nowadays. Therefore we propose a procedure by which - on the basis of actual lead times of orders processed in the company's workplaces in the past - expected lead times of planned (and indirectly - production) orders can be predicted. The result of the proposed procedure is an empirical distribution of possible lead times for the new order, and on the basis of this distribution it is possible to predict the most probable leadtime of a new order. Using the proposed procedure, the sales department can make a prediction for the customer about delivery time of the planned order. As an illustration of the procedure for predicting lead times of orders, a case study is presented: lead time of order for the ""tool for manufacturing the filter housing"" was predicted; the tool is manufactured in the Slovenian company ETI Ltd.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10563417	Post hulls of spaces of signatures	We argue that Post hulls of spaces of signatures are natural generalization of Boolean hulls of spaces of orderings.	che	Birkhäuser	2001	1.01	Algebra universalis	0.099	0.48
10564892	A cost performance analysis of transport infrastructure construction in Slovenia	Due to limited data availability only a few studies have been able to provide statistically significant evidence on cost overruns in transport infrastructure investments and their systematic nature, and fewer still for road infrastructure investments. The body of available evidence refers to the most economically developed countries, while very little evidence was found regarding other countries. In this article the authors focus on cost performance of road infrastructure constructed through the National Motorway Construction Programme in Slovenia. Methodologically the study departs from other studies in this field by building on detailed expenditure data and not aggregate reports from the relevant institution. This enabled the analysis of four individual project cost categories (construction cost, land acquisition damages and others) and comparably more accurate results. A representative sample of randomly selected completed projects in the period 1995-2007 revealed that the cost overruns (19%; SD = 46.10%) in the entire period studied do not appear to be higher than in other comparable studies. At the same time the study results showed that cost overruns were unstable, i.e. much higher for older projects.	nld	Nijhoff	2012	1.01	Transportation	1.023	0.895
10568214	Case study of the sonochemical decolouration of textile azo dye Reactive Black 5	The decolouration and mineralization of reactive dye C.I. Reactive Black 5, a well-known representative of non-biodegradable azo dyes, by means of ultrasonic irradiation at 20, 279 and 817 kHz has been investigated with emphasis on the effect of various parameters on decolouration and degradation efficiency. Characterization of the used ultrasound systems was performed using calorimetric measurements and oxidative species monitoring using Fricke and iodine dosimeter. Experiments were carried out with low frequency probe type, and a high-frequency plate type transducer at 50, 100 and 150 W of acoustic power and within the 5-300 mgžL initial dye concentration range. Decolouration, as well as radical production, increased with increasing frequency, acoustic power, and irradiation time. Any increase in initial dye concentration results in decreased decolouration rates. Sonochemical decolouration was substantially depressed by the addition of 2-methyl-2-propanol as a radical scavenger, which suggests radical-induced reactions in the solution. Acute toxicity to marine bacteria Vibrio fischeri was tested before and after ultrasound irradiation. Under the conditions employed in this study, no toxic compounds were detected after 6 h of irradiation. Mineralization of the dye was followed by TOC measurements. Relatively low degradation efficiency (50% after 6 h of treatment) indicates that ultrasound is rather inefficient in overall degradation, when used alone.	nld	Elsevier Scientific Publ. Co.	2007	1.01	Journal of hazardous materials	2.337	0.617
10568982	Charpy toughness and microstructure of vibrated weld metal	Vibration during welding can be used to obtain certain changes in mechanical properties of weld metal. Research work on the influence of vibration on the secondary microstructure of welds and hence on the Charpy toughness was performed. Vibration during welding exhibits positive effects on the microstructure constituent formation. Multipass welding was simulated with reheating of the original single pass weld in order to obtain similar microstructure to multipass welds. Microstructures were examined with an optical microscope. Additionally, fractographic examination of the rupture of Charpy specimens was performed. Changes in the microstructure according to vibration were observed which affect toughness of the weld metal. Vibration during welding was rated more effective in the case of reheating the weld metal, which is the case in multipass welding.	nld	Institute of Materials	2006	1.01	Science and technology of welding and joining	0.891	0.68
10569494	Optimisation of n-octyl oleate enzymatic synthesis over Rhizomucor miehei lipase	Octyl oleate is a useful organic compound with several applications in cosmetic, lubricant and pharmaceutical industry. At first, the enzymatic synthesis of n-octyl oleate by direct lipase-catalysed esterification of oleicacid and 1-octanol was investigated in a stirred batch reactor in solvent-free system. A systematic screening and optimisation of the reaction parameters were performed to gain insight into the kinetics mechanism. Particularly, enzyme concentration, reaction temperature, stirrer speed, watercontent, substrates concentration and molar ratio were optimised with respect to the final product concentration and reaction rate. The kinetics mechanism of the reaction was investigated. Finally, a comparison of the experimental results obtained in a solvent free-system with those using two different solvents, supercritical carbon dioxide (SC-CO2) and n-hexane, was proposed. It resulted that in SC-CO2 higher concentration of the desired product was attained, requiring lower enzyme concentrations to achieve comparable conversion of free fatty acid into fatty acid ester.	nld	Springer	2006	1.01	Bioprocess and biosystems engineering	1.092	0.921
10573083	Tribochemistry in sliding wear of TiCN-Ni-based cermets	The tailoring of cermet composition to improve tribological properties requires careful choice of the type of secondary carbide. To investigate this aspect, a number of sliding tests were carried out on baseline TiCN-20Ni cermet and TiCN-20wt%Ni-10 wt% XC cermets (X = W/Nb/Ta/Hf) at varying loads of5N, 20N, and 50N against bearing steel. With these experiments, we attemptedto answer some of the pertinent issues: (i) how does the type of secondary carbide (WC/NbC/TaC/HfC) influence friction and wear behavior, and is such influence dependent on load?; and (ii) how does the secondary carbide addition affect the stability and composition of the tribochemical layer under the selected sliding conditions? Our experimental results reveal that theadded secondary carbides influence chemical interactions between different oxides and such interactions dominate the friction and wear behavior. A higher coefficient of friction (COF) range, varying from 0.75 to 0.64 was recorded at 5N; whereas the reduced COF of 0.46-0.52 was observed at 20N or 50N. The volumetric wear rate decreased with load and varied on the order of 10-6 to 10-7 mm3/Nm for the cermets investigated. The cermet containing HfC exhibited high friction and poor wear resistance. At low load (5N), the abrasion and adhesion of hard debris containing various oxides dominated the wear, and resulted in high friction and wear loss. In contrast, the more pronounced increase in friction-induced contact temperature (below 500 °C) andcompaction of hard debris resulted in the formation of a distinct tribochemical layer at higher loads (20N and 50N). The formation of a dense tribolayer containing oxides of iron and/or titanium is responsible for the reduced friction and wear, irrespective of secondary carbides.	usa	Published for the Materials Research Society by the American Institute of Physics	2008	1.01	Journal of materials research	1.743	1.953
10579464	Formation of edge dislocations in the surface constrained smectic a film	We study surface driven formation of a lattice of edge dislocations in the SmA phase in the semiinfinite geometry using Landau-Ginsburg phenomenological approach and estimate the conditions where the dislocation structure is stable over the tilted structure and the threshold for the formation of an edge dislocation on increasing the surface positional anchoring strength ?$W_p$?. The detail structure of an edge dislocation is numerically studied as a function of ?$W_p$?	usa	Gordon and Breach	2000	1.01	Molecular crystals and liquid crystals science and technology	0.885	1.172
10586907	Analysis of residual stresses induced by dry turning of difficult-to-machine materials	Critical issues in machining of difficult-to-cut materials are often associated with short tool-life and poor surface integrity, where the resulting tensile residual stresses on the machined surface significantly affect the component's fatigue life. This study presents the influence of cutting process parameters on machining performance and surface integrity generated during dry turning of Inconel 718 and austenitic stainless steel AISI 316L with coated and uncoated carbide tools. A three-dimensional Finite Element Model was also developed and the predicted results were compared with those measured.	che	Technische Rundschau;Hallwag Verlag;Colibri	2008	1.01	CIRP annals	1.123	0.905
10587419	Analytical solutions in elasto-plasto bending of beams with rectangular cross section	Deflection analysis of beams with rectangular cross section is considered under specific loading conditions, resulting in at most quadratic bending moment distribution, and assuming elasto-plastic behaviour with no hardening. Within the framework of small strain and small displacement approach analytical solutions are derived, which enable elasto-plastic analyses of beams to be performed in a closed analytical form. In consequence, clear tracing of the elasto-plastic response evolution with a propagation of the plastic zone through the volume, i.e. its spreading along the beam's longitudinal axis as well as its penetration through the cross section, is enabled as loads increase, from the appearance of a first plastic yielding in a structure till its collapse. With the derivation of the general solution, listed explicitly by Eqs. (21), (22) and (23), which was never presented in any article or book before, the presented article fills the gap in the analytical non-linear mechanics of beams.	gbr	Butterworth Scientific Ltd	2009	1.01	Applied mathematical modelling	1.375	0.918
10587675	Time response of a sheathed temperature measurement probe	The paper describes a simplified mathematical model designed for the purpose of identification of the time dependent response of a sheathed temperature measurement probe. In the numerical simulation of the proposed model, the software package Simulink was applied. The results obtained by numerical simulation of the time response of the sheathed temperature measurement probe were validated experimentally for a case of a sheathed probe installed in a real object, taking into account the actual operational conditions of the process system.	usa	Marcel Dekker, Inc.	2008	1.01	Instrumentation science & technology	0.435	1.318
10587931	Prediction of the dynamic properties of temperature sensors in arbitrary gases	This paper presents a theoretical investigation with experimental model verification of the dynamic properties identification of contact temperature sensors in arbitrary gases. For prediction of dynamic behaviour of temperaturesensors in mainly uncommon atmospheres and under conditions where standard experimental work could not be carried out, a mathematical model was built for calculating the dynamic parameters of temperature sensors in various gases at different thermodynamic conditions on the basis of experimental work. Frequently, a sensor's dynamic properties and sensitivity to different or changed thermodynamic conditions such as temperature, pressure, velocity, or even composition of gases in operation conditions can be a crucial factor in the regulation and control of the system. The main part of the contribution describes the mathematical model, its connection with the experimental results and limits within which the discussed relation are valid. The contribution also introduces, on the based of non-dimensional correlation and supposition that the time behaviour, is a function of pressureand velocity; a simplified expression is offered for the calculation the heat transfer coefficient as one of the most significant factor in determining the dynamic properties and behaviour of temperature sensor. The presented investigation has shown applicability of an elaborated mathematical model in connection with experimental results, as well as the employability ofa simplified calculated expression which was verified with a standard iterative method. The built model and results of calculations show high applicability of the model, especially in investigations and analyses where different arbitrary gases under different thermodynamic conditions are used.	usa	Marcel Dekker, Inc.	2008	1.01	Instrumentation science & technology	0.435	1.318
10588187	Parameters affecting water-hammer wave attenuation, shape and timing Part 1	This two-part paper investigates key parameters that may affect the pressure waveform predicted by the classical theory of water-hammer. Shortcomings in the prediction of pressure wave attenuation, shape and timing originate from violation of assumptions made in the derivation of the classical waterhammer equations. Possible mechanisms that may significantly affect pressure waveforms include unsteady friction, cavitation (including column separation and trapped air pockets), a number of fluid-structure interaction (FSI) effects, viscoelastic behaviour of the pipe-wall material, leakages and blockages. Engineers should be able to identify and evaluate the influence of these mechanisms, because first these are usually not included instandard water-hammer software packages and second these are often ""hidden"" in practical systems. Part 1 of the two-part paper describes mathematical tools for modelling the aforementioned mechanisms. The method of characteristics transformation of the classical water-hammer equations is used herein as the basic solution tool. In separate additions: a convolution-based unsteady friction model is explicitly incorporated; discrete vapour and gas cavity models allow cavities to form at computational sections; coupled extended water-hammer and steel-hammer equations describe FSI; viscoelastic behaviour of the pipe-wall material is governed by a generalised Kelvin-Voigt model; and blockages and leakages are modelled as endor internal boundary conditions.	esp	International association of hydraulic engineering and research	2008	1.01	Journal of hydraulic research	0.883	0.815
10588443	Parameters affecting water-hammer wave attenuation, shape and timing Part 2	This two-part paper investigates parameters that may significantly affect water-hammer wave attenuation, shape and timing. Possible sources that may affect the waveform predicted by classical water-hammer theory include unsteady friction, cavitation (including column separation and trapped air pockets), a number of fluid-structure interaction effects, viscoelastic behaviour of the pipe-wall material, leakages and blockages. Part 1 of this two-part paper presents the mathematical tools needed to model these sources. Part 2 of the paper presents a number of case studies showing how these modelled sources affect pressure traces in a simple reservoir-pipeline-valve system. Each case study compares the obtained results with the standard (classical) water-hammer model, from which conclusions are drawn concerning the transient behaviour of real systems.	esp	International association of hydraulic engineering and research	2008	1.01	Journal of hydraulic research	0.883	0.815
10597721	Common invariant subspaces for collections of operators	Let ?${\cal C}$? be a collection of bounded operators on a Banach space ?$X$? of dimension at least two. We say that ?${\cal C}$? is finitely quasinilpotent at a vector ?$x_0 \in X$? whenewer for any finite subset ?${\cal F}$? of ?${\cal C}$? the joint spectral radius of ?${\cal F}$? at ?$x_0$? is equal 0. If such collection ?${\cal C}$? contains a non-zero compact operator, then ?${\cal C}$? and its commutant ?${\cal C}'$? have a common non-trivial invariant subspace. If, in addition, ?${\cal C}$? is a collection of positive operators on Banach latiice, then ?${\cal C}$? and ?${\cal C}'$? have a common non-trivial closed ideal. This result and a recent remarkable result of Turovskii imply the following extension of the famous result of de Pagter. Let ?${\cal S}$? be a non-zero multiplicative semigroup of quasinilpotent compact positive operators on a Banach lattice of dimension at least two. Then ?${\cal S}$? and its commutant ?${\cal S}'$? have a common non-trivial invariant closed ideal.	che	Birkhäuser	2001	1.01	Integral equations and operator theory	0.451	0.48
10602779	Verification of dC(1) parameter for measuring the effectiveness of a personalized ventilation system	An analysis of the ventilation effectiveness of a prototype personalized ventilation system of working places named PERMICS-LOS1 (Personal Microclimate System) was made, based on measurements of the air velocity field and of tracer gas concentrations using the decay method. The emphasis of the analysis was mainly on an experimental verification of a parameter based on the relative decrease of tracer gas concentration in the first minute of system operation dC(1) and on local ventilation efficiency using the local air-change index ŽL. A system analysis was made for several different operating regimes of personalized ventilation, where changes in air quantity and the direction of supplied air in the breathing zone were applied. The results of the experimental analysis were statistically evaluated, compared, and included in the existing database of previous research for use as supplementary values. The performed analysis has confirmed previous findings as well as the connection between the dC(1) parameter and ventilation effectiveness parameters, especially with the local air-change index.	usa	ASHRAE	2008	1.01	HVAC & R research	0.637	0.763
10603286	Impact of extreme PSTN conditions on VoIP gateway echo cancellation	This article focuses on the impact of extreme PSTN conditions on echo canceller operation at VolP gateways, which are interfacing on one side to the traditional telephone PSTN and on the other side to packet-based networks. With the migration of traditional telephone PSTNs to packet-based voice services, it is crucial to be able to provide the same services with this new technology without any degradation in quality of service or inconvenience to the end user. It presents an example of a national operator of traditional telephony, who encountered explicit echo problems in its network when upgrading it with packet-based technology. The reasons for an extensive echo are analysed and the guidelines for solving the problem s are given. In particular, it explains the requirements of VolP gateway echo canceller operation to work in network conditions that are much more demanding than described in the ITU- T G.168 Recommendation and stresses how voice transmission over the packet-based network exposes the existing inconvenient or non-standard conditions of traditional telephone PSTN.	gbr	TCN UK	2006	1.01	The journal	0.082	0.723
10603291	Tailoring functionality and durability of polymeric products by modifying processing conditions	We investigate new possibilities for modifying functionality of polymeric products by changing their material structure during processing and consequently their time-dependent properties, which define the durability of final products. In the first part of the paper we report on significant differences in material structure as observed at atomistic scale due to differences in processing conditions. A short overview of recent studies on multi-scale phenomena in material structure formation is included. Several experimental approaches are proposed for studying the effect of processing conditions on material structure formation and hence, the macroscopic properties of the final polymeric product. ...	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10603547	Modelling and analysis of a combined electronic and micro-mechanical system	The modelling of micro-mechanical systems in combination with integrated electronic circuits is a complex task demanding a knowledge of mechanical and microelectronic design in combination with system-modelling expertise, especially in cases where new possibilities regarding system construction and its properties are taken into account. Such modelling is becoming increasingly important because of the rapid growth of so-called ""smart sensor"" applications based on micro-mechanical devices. Our task was to create a reliable model of a micro-mechanical acceleration sensor that uses an extremely small and easy-to-produce mechanical system. The suspended mass and the output signal of this sensor are one order of magnitude smaller than existing systems. The described model was used for the further development of the mechanical and electrical parts of the system. The modelling inputs were the measurement data of the prototype devices, comprising the static characteristics of the device and the system responses to step-function excitation. Together with known physical properties and basic theoretical equations these data enabled us to create the described model, which showed good agreement with the measurement results.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.03	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10603803	Experimental investigations of porosity and permeability of flocs in the suspensions of biological water treatment plants	This paper deals with the movement of flocs in suspension, as they appear in biological wastewater treatment (BWT) plants. Basic equations for solving the problem and analysis of wastewater composition of BWT plant Lendava are presented. Greater attention is given to the geometrical and sedimentation characteristics of solid flocs, key parameters for developing a fast numerical procedure for simulating flocs' movements. An extensive analysis regarding floc size distribution and settling velocity is presented. Based on the results of experimental investigations, the main physical parameters of the flocs are defined and calculated by considering floc porosity.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10604310	Dynamic neural network approach for tool cutting force modelling of end milling operations	This paper uses the artificial neural networks (ANNs) approach to evolve an efficient model for estimation of cutting forces, based on a set of input cutting conditions. Neural network (NN) algorithms are developed for use as a direct modelling method, to predict forces for ball-end milling operations. Prediction of cutting forces in ball-end milling is often needed in order to establish automation or optimization of the machining processes. Supervised NNs are used to successfully estimate the cutting forces developed during end milling processes. The training of the networks is preformed with experimental machining data. The predictive capability of using analytical and NN approaches is compared. NN predictions for three cutting force components were predicted with 4% error by comparing with the experimental measurements. Exhaustive experimentation is conduced to develop the model and to validate it. By means of the developed method, it is possible to forecast the development of events that will take place during the milling process without executing the tests. The force model can be used for simulation purposes and for defining threshold values in cutting tool condition monitoring system. It can be used also in the combination for monitoring and optimizing of the machining process-cutting parameters.	usa	Gordon and Breach Science Publishers.	2006	1.01	International journal of general systems	0.620	1.001
10604377	Free ordered algebraic structures towards proof theory	In this paper, constructions of free ordered algebras on one generator are given that correspond to some one-variable fragments of affine propositional classical logic and their extensions with ?$n$?-contraction ?$(n\ge 2)$?. Moreover, embeddings of the already known infinite free structures into the algebras introduced below are furnished with: thus solving along the respective cardinality problems.	usa	Association for Symbolic Logic	2001	1.01	The Journal of symbolic logic	0.345	0.48
10606681	Continuous functionals of dependent types and equilogical spaces	We show that dependent sums and dependent products of continuous parametrizations on domains with dense, codense, and natural totalities agree with dependent products in equilogical spaces, and thus also in the realizability topos RT(P(N)).	deu	Springer	2000	1.01	Lecture notes in computer science	0.390	0.687
10609691	Laser pulse transient method for measuring the normal spectral emissivity of samples with arbitrary surface quality	A laser pulse transient method for measuring normal spectral emissivity is described. In this method, a laser pulse (l=1064 nm) irradiates the top surface of a flat specimen. A two-dimensional temperature response of the bottom surface is measured with a calibrated thermographic camera. By solving an axisymmetric boundary value heat conduction problem, the normal spectral emissivity at 1064 nm is determined by using an iterative nonlinear least-squares estimation procedure. The method can be applied to arbitrary sample surface quality. The method is tested on a nickel specimen and used to determine the normal spectral emissivity of AISI 304 stainless steel. The expanded combined uncertainty of the method has been estimated to be 18%.	deu	Springer	2008	1.01	Applied physics	1.884	1.953
10609947	Dynamics of a belt-drive system using a linear complementarity problem for the belt-pulley contact description	The aim of this study was to develop an efficient and realistic numerical model in order to predict the dynamic response of belt drives. The belt was modeled as a planar beam element based on an absolute nodal coordinate formulation. A viscoelastic material was adopted for the belt and the corresponding damping and stiffness matrices were determined. The belt-pulley contact was formulated as a linear complementarity problem together with a penalty method. This made it possible for us to accurately predict the contact forces, including the stick and slip zones between the belt and the pulley. The belt-drive model was verified by comparing it with the available analytical solutions. A good agreement was found. Finally, the applicability of the method was demonstrated by considering non-steady belt-drive operating conditions.	gbr	Academic Press	2009	1.01	Journal of Sound and Vibration	1.414	0.969
10610454	Lipase-catalyzed synthesis of fatty acid fructose esters	Fatty acid sugar esters are non-ionic surfactants which are widely used in food, cosmetic and pharmaceutical industry. Lipase-catalyzed synthesis of fructose with fatty acid in organic medium was performed in a batch reactor atatmospheric pressure. Influence of different reaction parameters, such as different kinds of lipase preparations and organic solvents, biocatalyst concentration, molecular sieve concentration, temperature, stirring rate and the use of different fatty acids as acyl donors was studied. Optimum conditions were found using 10% (w/w of substrates) lipase from Candida antarctica B (Novozym 435) and 12.1% (w/w) of molecular sieves at 60 °C and stirring rate of 600 rpm. The highest conversion was obtained in ethyl methylketon (82%), which is permitted for general use in the manufacture of food additives.	nld	Applied Science Publishers	2006	1.01	Journal of food engineering	1.696	0.921
10611720	A case of insertional translocation resulting in partial trisomy 16p	This report concerns the case of a boy with partial trisomy 16p resulting from the insertional translocation of the short arm of chromosome 16 into the long arm of chromosome 1 in his father. He was referred for genetic testing because of mental retardation, short stature, microcephaly, seizures and multiple dysmorphic features. Chromosome analysis performed in the child demonstrated the presence of additional material in the long arm of chromosome 1. Paternal high resolution chromosome analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridisation revealed the following karyotype: 46,XY,ins(1;16)(q42;p13.1p13.3), while the karyotype of the boy is 46,XY,der(1),ins(1;16)(q42;p13.1p13.3)pat. This is the first reported case of partial trisomy 16p due to paternal insertional translocation	fra	Expansion scientifique française	2000	1.01	Annales de Génétique	0.768	3.085
10614361	Products of roots of the identity	It is proved that evety invertible bounded linear operator on a complex infinite-dimensional Hilbert space is a product of five ?$n$?-th roots of the identiti for every ?$n>2$?. For invertible normal operators four factors suffice in general.	usa	American Mathematical Society	2001	1.01	Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society	0.369	0.48
10616086	Evaluation of Green`s function for vertical point-load excitation applied to the surface of a semi-infinite elastic medium	The topic of this paper is to show that the integrals of infinite extent representing the surface displacements of a layered half-space loaded by a harmonic, vertical point load can be reduced to integrals with finite integration range. The displacements are first expressed through wave potentials and the Hankel integral transform in the radial coordinate is applied to the governing equations and boundary conditions, leading to the solutions in the transformed domain. After the application of the inverse Hankel transform it is shown that the inversion integrands are symmetric/antimetric in the transformation parameter and that this characteristic is preserved for any number of layers. Based on this fact the infinite inversion integrals are reduced to integrals with finite range by choosing the suitable representation of the Bessel function and use of the fundamental rules of contour integration, permitting simpler analytical or numerical evaluation. A numerical example is presented and the results are compared to those obtained by the CLASSI program.	deu	Springer Verlag	2006	1.01	Archive of applied mechanics	0.590	1.092
10617608	Universal fine structure of nematic hedgedogs	We study in a Landau-de Gennes approach the biaxial structure of a nematic point defect with topological charge ?$M = +1$?. We aim to illuminate the role of the confining boundaries in determining the fine structure of the defect. We show that there are different regimes associated with different values of the ratio between the typical size R of the region in space occupied by the material and the biaxial correlation lenght ?$\xi_b$?. For ?$R\more20$? the core structure is already qualitatively universal, that is, independet of the confining geometry, while also for ?$R/\xi_b\more 200$? any quantitative difference is unlikely to be detected	gbr	Institute of Physics	2001	1.01	Journal of physics	1.542	1.024
10617622	Synthesis of lanthanaum-strontium manganites by oxalate-precursor co-precipitation methods in solution and reverse micellar microemulsion	Nanostructured lanthanum-strontium manganites were synthesized using two different co-precipitation approaches, one in bulk solution, and the other in reverse micelles of CTAB/1-hexanol/water microemulsion. In both cases, precursor cations were precipitated by using oxalic acid. The properties of the materials synthesized by using these two methods were compared in order toreveal potential advantages of the microemulsion-assisted approach. The influence of the annealing conditions on the properties of synthesized manganites was investigated by using X-ray diffraction, transmission electron microscopy, differential thermal analysis, thermogravimetric analysis and magnetic measurements.	nld	North-Holland Publishing Co	2006	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.212	1.659
10617878	Kinetics of supercritical carbon dioxide extraction of borage and evening primrose seed oil	In the present work, high-pressure extraction of borage (Borago officinalis L.) and evening primrose (Oenothera biennis L.) seed oil, containing the valuable -linolenic acid (GLA), has been investigated. Extraction was performed with supercritical carbon dioxide on a semi-continuous flow apparatus at pressures of 200 and 300 bar, and at temperatures of 40 and 60 °C. A constant flow rate of carbon dioxide in the range from 0.17 to 0.20 kgžhwas maintained during extraction. The extraction yields obtained using dense CO2 were similar to those obtained with conventional extraction using hexane as solvent. The composition of extracted crude oil was determined by GCanalysis. The best results were obtained at 300 bar and 40 °C for both seed types extracted, where the quality of oil was highest with regard to GLA content. The evening primrose seed oil extracted with supercritical fluid extraction was particularly rich in unsaturated fatty acidsÈ up to 89.7 wt-% of total free fatty acids in the oil. The dynamic behavior of the extraction runs was analyzed using two mathematical models for describing the constant rate period and the subsequent falling rate period. Based on the experimental data, external mass transfer coefficients, diffusion coefficients and diffusivity in solid phase were estimated. Results showed good agreement between calculated and experimental data.	nld	Wiley-VCH	2006	1.01	European journal of lipid science and technology	1.184	1.025
10620188	Modelling Stock Exchange Index Returns in Different GDP Growth Regimes	During different GDP growth regimes, the dynamics of global financial markets impacts the Slovenian stock exchange with varying intensity. We propose a smooth transition regression model to explain Slovene stock exchange index returns employing financial and macroeconomic variables. According to our model, the reaction of the stock market to several of the explanatory variables depends on the magnitude of GDP growth. The weaker relationship between Slovene stock exchange index returns and S&P 500 returns in the period of lower or negative GDP growth could be explained by less developed financial market in Slovenia and therefore not closely linked interchange of securities.	cze	University of Economics	2011	1.01	Prague Economic Papers	0.256	1.032
10622486	Assessment of the consequences of accident scenarios involving dangerous substances	This paper highlights the major steps in the procedure for evaluating the consequences of accidents involving dangerous substances, especially during storage, loading and unloading activities. The procedure relies on identifying accident scenarios that could be encountered in particular plants, followed by modelling of these scenarios by means of available modelling systems. Finally, the resultant outcomes are identified, together with their effects on both people and property. The resources needed to perform this proceedure are discussed, in order to clarify the roles of operators, external experts and other institutions when evaluating any accident conesquences. Four examples, all relevant in industrial practice, are given in order to illustrate the procedure: the releasing of liquefied petroleum gas, flammable organic solvents, toxic chlorine, and fuel oil. The results of these studies may be used for a quick order-of-magnitude estimation of accidents consequences.	usa	Institution of Chemical Engineers.	2007	1.01	Process safety and environmental protection	0.580	1.015
10625564	Audit opinion identification using accounting ratios	Several prior research studies have presented a model for audit opinion identification using a chosen combination of the company's accounting ratios as derived from financial statements. However, from the methodological viewpoint, there is one questionable issue: the appropriate performance evaluation of developed model taking into account auditors' subjective preferences. In the present study, a model for the identification of qualified audit opinions using logistic regression is developed and validated using ROC curves and AUC values in combination with misclassification costs as performance criterion. Considering auditors' subjective preferences the model's performance results based on these performance criteria are adequate.	ukr	Nacional´na akademiâ upravlinnâ	2011	1.01	Aktual´ni problemi ekonomiki	0.039	1.032
10626331	The material characterization of the air spring bellow sealing layer	The paper presents the tensile creep, relaxation and low-cycle fatigue data of filled natural rubber. The data were collected at four temperatures, 23, 40,55 and 70 °C and with different load levels. Each creep and low-cycle fatigue experiment was performed until a rupture appeared. The relaxation experiments were performed for 10,000 s. For each loading condition, the creepand relaxation data are fitted with the simplified two-parameter Nutting equation. The dependence of the parameters on load and temperature is then presented with a 3D piecewise cubic Hermite interpolation. The low-cycle fatigue data are fitted with the Coffin, Manson and Morrow equation, which is associated with procedures that are widely used for metal materials.	gbr	Scientific and Technical Press	2009	1.01	Materials and design	1.518	2.034
1062761	The Use virtual reality-based dynamometer training to enhance selective joint torque control in a child with cerebral palsy	Virtual reality (VR) environments present nowadays a powerful tool for visual feedback in assessment and training programs of rehabilitation. Designing appropriate target-oriented tasks may enhance the rehabilitation options available in biomechanical dynamometry. The subjects are motivated to achieve a goal in the VR environment, and therefore, their performance often increases. This adds a significant value to the evaluation of the subjectæs capabilities and design of the appropriate training program that may enhance the selective joint torque control in children with cerebral palsy. In this paper, we suggest a VR environment that offers motivation for maximal joint torque generation and VE for joint torque control training. A dynamometer withtorque sensor and axis motor was used in the process and enabled biomechanical information, i.e. knee joint torque and surface electromyography, assessment during the target-oriented VR based task. A 12-year old child with cerebral palsy participated in the case study. The protocol consisted of three consecutive days of virtual reality-supported training under various conditions, like task velocity and difficulty level. Our data suggested that there were improvements in the knee joint torque tracking and increased target hit score regardless of the task difficulty level. Besides the improvement of the knee joint torque control, presumably more muscle power could be generated, resulting in more successful performanceat targets where high joint torque was required. Apparently high level of motivation has been noticed. The advantages of using VE for rehabilitation services were shown in variability of attractive target oriented tasks, repeatability and highly motivated subjects. Hereby, a VR environment guided dynamometer based assessment and training for single joint was demonstrated. The promising outcomes call for longer training period and clinical evaluation of modern therapeutic approach.	twn	Biomedical Engineering Society of ROC.	2010	1.01	Journal of medical and biological engineering	0.420	1.925
10627611	Workpiece structure deformation caused by high speed cutting	The hard turning and grinding of High Speed Steel (HSS) materials with hardness of 61 HRC significantly changes structural properties. Estimators of the cutting conditions are surface roughness, dimensions, tolerances and required structure of the surface layer. Vacuum heat treatment of HSS for cold working applications was used as yielded material with greater toughness, while the hardness was maintained constant or even increased. HSS-BRM2 material that was vacuum quenched and tempered was machined. After the machining with that kind of tool property, the surface layer of the workpiece can be completely damage-free. Practical implications assume that a hard turning is a semi finishing or finishing process relevance. Surface roughness is a consequence of both cutting instability and of tool/workpiece loading condition. Originality of this paper is in an analysis of sources and prevention of workpiece material structure damage while reaching high machined surface quality and workpiece geometrical tolerances.	che	Inderscience Enterprises	2008	1.01	International journal of materials & product technology	0.157	1.953
10629660	How qualitative elements of relational exchanges influence an implementation of purchasing marketing strategies - a case of service companies in Slovenia	The author examines a relationship between the qualitative elements of relational exchanges and the implementation of relationship marketing strategies vs. transactional marketing strategies from the buyer's perspective in business-to-business exchanges. Therefore, four groups of qualitative relational exchange' factors have been determined: attractiveness of supplier, attractiveness of total purchasing market for the buyer, competitive position of the buyer on the purchasing market, and the bargaining orientation of the buyer toward its strategic supplier. Drawing on emerging perspectives on service companies with more than 200 employees in Slovenia and their relationship with strategic suppliers, the author proposes that a buyer's perception of qualitative elements of relational exchanges influences employment of particular marketing strategies towards its strategic supplier. Results of empirical study show some correlation between the groups of variables investigated. The influence of measured factors on the implementation of particular group of marketing strategies exists, although the strongest impact is prevailed especially by factors, which are characteristic for short-term relationships. Hence the surveyed companies are oriented much more toward achieving short-term efficiency instead of long-term effectiveness. This research makes a contribution to the strategy literature and to the practitioners, and has important implications for purchasing managers by offering guidelines for mixing the various aspects of partnering according to their objectives and strategies in order to improve the level of their relational approach to their strategic suppliers.	hrv	Fakultet ekonomije i turizma ""Dr. Mijo Mirkoviæ""	2011	1.01	Ekonomska istraživanja	0.193	1.032
10630684	The integration and requisite holism of the enterprises' governance and management as preconditions for coping with global environmental changes	The main goal of our research was to determine the modes of governance and management in examined enterprises and to see how well enterprises are prepared to cope with difficult economic conditions caused by the crisis which started in 2008. The presence of advanced modes of management (evolutionarily described as cognitive and integral or integrative management) is the necessary precondition to deal with difficult economic times. The research results show that the more advanced cognitive and integrative modes of management are present to a greater extent in larger enterprises; they are present in smaller enterprises as well, but only to a lesser extent. The research was carried out in Slovenia, a former socialist country and EU member. The findings of our study may also have implications for other countries with a similar make-up.	hun	Bp. Tech Polytech. Inst.	2011	1.01	Acta polytechnica Hungarica	0.385	0.881
10632220	Informal and formal institutional measures of business ethics implementation at different stages of enterprise life cycle	During its activity, an enterprise passes through different life cycle stages, which differ in terms of management systems, formal structures, control systems, documentation of transactions, and number of procedural hurdles. Therefore, our main research problem focused on the differences in informal and formal institutional measures of business ethics implementation. We used the case study research methodology to explore the differences of informal and formal institutional measures of business ethics implementation at different stages of the enterprise life cycle. The pre-designed questionnaire was used to conduct face-to-face interviews with 40 managers who were in most cases also owners of the studied enterprises.	hun	Bp. Tech Polytech. Inst.	2011	1.01	Acta polytechnica Hungarica	0.385	0.881
1063271	Micro vs. macro reinforcement of brickwork masonry	In this paper the effect of different modifications of mortar on the behaviour of brick masonry has been experimentally studied. Two modifications of ordinary cement lime rich mortar were made by introducing polypropylene fibres (micro reinforcement) and by reinforcing mortar bed joints by ,eans of non-metallic meshes (macro reinforcement). Experimental tests were carried on the constituents of the masonry, as well as on masonry specimens consisting of wallettes and panels. Following different methodologies of testing masonry by means of compressive, diagonal and shear tests, the results of the investigation revealed that by reinforcing masonry material both compressive and tensile (shear) strength could be improved. Also from the results of the different test methods, it has been concluded that diagonal tests are not suitable for investigations of reinforced masonry.	fra	E. & F. N. Spon;RILEM Publications	2006	1.01	Materials and structures	0.459	0.534
10632732	Cross Border Economic Convergence and EU Integration Process	The real benefits of integrating different economic areas and regions into one common economic, monetary, and sometimes also fiscal area are among the most important issues to be resolved because the win-win situation for all participants should prevail unless the Member States or local authorities lose their interest in further participation. In this study, we compare the speed and the real benefits of economic integration between the three groups of Member States that emerged following the last big EU enlargement. The first group is composed of the so-called old EU Member States. The second group represents the countries that achieved full membership in 2004 (the so-called new Member States), and in the third group, there are the countries that are now in the negotiation process for EU membership. We then draw from the experience of these new Member States to derive implications for a possible new round of EU enlargement. The conclusion of this paper is therefore supposed to be some kind of direction for the new candidate countries. The results offer an answer to the question of what degree of convergence the new EU10 Member States reached within certain macroeconomic fundamentals during the period of their accession negotiations.	svn	Inštitut za lokalno samoupravo in javna naroèila	2011	1.01	Lex localis	0.317	0.759
1063529	Psychometric properties of the Fatigue Severity Scale in polio survivors	The objective of this study was to evaluate by means of classical test theory and Rasch analysis the scaling characteristics and psychometric properties of the Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS) in polio survivors. A questionnaire, consisting of five general questions (sex, age, age at time of acute polio, sequelae of polio, and new symptoms), the FSS, and three questions from the Visual Analog Scale questions on fatigue was sent to all 196 polio survivors at the Institute for Rehabilitation in Ljubljana. Responses were assessed in terms of Cronbach's ?, item-to-total correlation, factor analysis, and Rasch analysis. Of the 128 (65.3%) valid questionnaires returned, those presenting no missing values were used for subsequent analyses (n=117). The FSS showed good internal consistency: Cronbach's ? was greater than 0.95, item-to-total correlation ranged from 0.68 to 0.88. A reduction from seven to three rating categories was necessary to comply with criteria for correct category function. Item difficulty estimates spanned from -0.91 to +1.09 logits. No item bias was found for sex and age. The internal consistency of FSS was high and its item separation reliability good, indicating a satisfactory replicability of item placement in other samples. In conclusion, Rasch analysis enabled us to confirm the validity of FSS (in its 8-item version, without item 1) as a measure of the severity and impact of physical symptoms of fatigue in polio survivors, so providing a useful starting point for further studies aimed at examining additional psychometric aspects and confirming the appropriateness of the simplification of its rating categories.	gbr	Lipincott Williams & Wilkins	2010	1.01	International journal of rehabilitation research	1.192	1.126
10636827	Differences in the tribological mechanisms when using non-doped, metal-doped (Ti, WC), and non-metal-doped (Si) diamond-like carbon against steel under boundary lubrication, with and without oil additives	In this paper, we report on the tribological performance and mechanisms of the boundary-lubricated contacts of steel against diamond-like carbon (DLC) coatings, i.e., steel/DLC, using the same materials, oils, additives and conditions as we have previously reported for DLC/DLC contacts. We present and compare the behaviour of two non-doped, two metal-doped (Ti, WC) and one non-metal-doped (Si) DLC coatings in contact with steel surfaces in reciprocating sliding, lubricated with a paraffinic mineral base oil with and without anti-wear and extreme-pressure additives. Friction behaviour similar to that of the steel/steel surfaces is observed in all the steel/coating contacts, irrespective of the coating type. However, the doped and non-doped coatings showed different wear behaviours. The non-doped DLC coatings provided the lowest wear with the base oils, due to the absence of adhesion between the steel and the DLC coating. In contrast, additivation of the oil was necessary for the adhesion prevention and successful operation of the steel/doped-DLC contacts.	che	Elsevier Sequoia	2006	1.01	Thin Solid Films	1.666	1.024
10638358	In-line higher order mode filters based on long highly uniform fiber tapers	This paper presents a simple and effective design of taper-based higher order mode (HOM) filters that can effectively remove HOMs from the few-mode fibers. For this purpose, a taper manufacturing technique that allows the production of long and highly uniform tapers was developed. A filter performance was demonstrated on a standard single-mode telecommunication fiber operating at 850 nm. The HOM suppression was better than$-$39 dB, and the insertion loss ofthe fundamental mode was less than 0.15 dB.	usa	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2006	1.01	Journal of lightwave technology	2.824	0.942
10643478	Fracture behaviours of fracture toughness testing specimens with metallurgical heterogeneity along crack front	Safe use of welded structures is dependent on fracture mechanics properties of welded joints. In present research, high strength low alloyed HSLA steel in a quenched and tempered condition, corresponding to the grade HT 80, was used. The fluxo cored arc welding process (FCAW), with CO2 as shielding gas, was used and two different tubular wires were selected. The aim of this paper is to analyse fracture behaviour of undermatched welded joints, and also to determine relevant parameters which contribute to higher critical values of fracture toughness. Towards this end three differently undermatched welded joints were analysed using results of testing the composite notched specimens with through thickness crack front positioned partly in the weld metal, partly in heat affected zone (HAZ) and partly in base material (BM). The presence of different microstructures along the pre-crack fatigue front has an important effect on the critical crack tip opening displacement (CTOD). This value is the relevant parameter for safe service of welded structure. In the case of specimens with through thickness notch partly in the weld metal, partly in the heat affected zone and partly in the base material, i.e. using the composite notched specimen, fracture behaviour strongly depends on a partition of ductile base material, size and distribution of mismatching factor along vicinity of crack front. If local brittle zones occur in the process zone, ductile base metal can not prevent pop-in instability, but it can reduce it to an insignificant level while the fracture toughness parameter is higher and the weakest link concept can not be applied.	deu	Verlag Stahleisen	2000	1.01	Steel research	0.320	0.465
10643734	The influence of soft root on fracture behaviors of high-strength, low-alloyed (HSLA) steel weldments	The presence of different microstructures along the precrack fatigue front has an important effect on the critical crack tip opening displacement (CTOD). This value is the relevant parameter for safe service of a welded structure. For a specimen with a through-thickness notch partly in the weld metal, partly in the heat-affected zone, and partly in the base material (i.e., using the com- posite-notched specimen), fracture behavior strongly depends on the propor- tion of ductile base material, size, and distribution of the mismatching factor along the vicinity of the crack front.	usa	Marcel Dekker	2001	1.01	Materials and manufacturing processes	0.288	0.351
10643990	Thermodynamic properties of coenzyme Q10 in supercritical carbon dioxide	The densities of coenzyme Q10 in supercritical carbon dioxide were measured at 308.15, 313.15, 323.15 and 333.15 K and in the pressure range from 10 to 40 MPa with the vibrating tube densimeter. The reliability of the technique has been verified in our previous works and in the present work it was checked comparing our experimental densities of pure carbon dioxide with literature data. The partial molar volumes, isothermal compressibilities, isobaric thermal expansivities, internal pressures and cluster sizes were calculated from obtained densities.	usa	PRA Press	2007	1.01	The Journal of supercritical fluids	2.189	1.015
10644057	The Hopf algebroids of functions on étale groupoids and their principal Morita equivalence	We show that the bimodules associated to the maps between étale groupoids admit a natural cocommutative coalgebra structure which is preserved under composition. Moreover, we obtain a Hopf algebroid structure on the Connes convolution algebra of an étale groupoid, which is invariant under Morita equivalence.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Journal of Pure and Applied Algebra	0.428	0.48
10644569	Higher product levels of noncommutative rings	The aim of this paper is to introduce the notion of the ?$n$?th product level p?$s_n$? of an associative unital ring and study its properties. Our main results are that every Noetherian ring ?$A$? with p?$s_n(A) < \infty$? for some ?$n \in \NN$? has p?$s_{nl}(A) < \infty$? for every odd number ?$l$? and that for every even ?$n \in \NN$? there exist a skew field ?$D$? with p?$s_n(D) = 1$? and p?$s_{2n}(D) = \infty$?. This is in a sharp contrast with the commutative case. Namely, for every commutative unital ring ?$R$? with p?$s_2(R) < \infty$? we have that p?$s_n(R) < \infty$? for every ?$n \in \NN$?.	usa	M. Dekker.	2001	1.01	Communications in algebra	0.320	0.48
10647129	Internal DLA and the Stefan problem	We study internal DLA, a stochastic growth model in which particles originate inside the occupied set, performs random walks, and stop upon visiting an unoccupied site. We prove that the density profile has a hydrodinamic limit known as the one-phase Stefan problem.	usa	Institute of Mathematical Statistics	2000	1.01	Annals of probability	0.913	0.635
10647385	Limit theorems for height fluctuations in a class of discrete space and time growth models	We analyze digital boiling, a two-dimensional growth model which incorporates random advances as well as nearest-neighbor interactions. We use Fredholm determinats and asymptotic methods to prove that height fluctuations converge to distributions known from random matrix theory.	usa	Plenum Press.	2001	1.01	Journal of statistical physics	1.241	1.024
10647897	Dynamics of speciation and diversification in a metapopulation	We develop a simple framework for modeling specification and diversification as a ccontinuous process of accumulation of genetic (or morphological) differences accompanied by species and subpopulation extinction and/or range expansion. This framework can be used to approach a number of questions such as species-erea distribution, species-range size distribution, the rate of ecological turnover, asymmetries of range division between sister species, waiting time until speciation and extinction, the relationship between the geographic range size and the probability of speciation, the relationship between the geographic range size and the probability of speciation, the relationship between subpopulation-level parameters and metapopulation-level parameters, and the effects of taxonomic level on these rates, distributions, and parameters. We illustrate some of these applications using numerical simulations. We develope approximations describing the dependence of the number of different taxonomic units, their average range size, and the rate of their turnover on the system size, the rate of fixation of genetic (or morphological) changes in local demes, and the rate of local extinction and colonization.	usa	Society for the Study of Evolution.	2000	1.01	Evolution	3.632	1.482
10648342	On the application of a simple computational model for slender transversely cracked beams in buckling problems	This paper discusses the implementation of a simplified computational model that is widely used for the computation of transverse displacements in transversely cracked slender beams into the Euler's elastic flexural buckling theory. Two alternatives are studied instead of solving the corresponding differential equations to obtain exact analytical expressions for the buckling load ?$P_{cr}$? due to the complexity of this approach. The first approach implements wisely selected polynomials to describe the behavior of the structure, which allows the derivation of approximate expressions for the critical buckling load. Although the relevance of the results strongly depends on the proper prime selection of the polynomial, it is shown that the later upgrading of the polynomials can lead to even more reliable results. The second approach is a purely numerical approach and presents the geometrical stiffness matrix for a beam finite element with a transverse crack. To support the discussed approaches, numerical examples covering several structures with different boundary conditions are briefly presented. The results obtained with the presented approaches are further compared with the values from enormous 2D finite elements models, where a detailed description of the crack was achieved with the discrete approach. It is evident that the drastic difference in the computational effort is not reflected in the significant differences in the results between the models.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Computational materials science	1.135	1.682
10648409	Extended Jacobson density theorem for rings with derivations and automorphisms	We introduce and study ?${\cal M}$?-outer derivations and automorphisms and prove a version of the Chevalley-Jacobson density theorem for rings with sauch derivations and automorphisms.	isr	Weizmann Science Press;William Dawson	2001	1.01	Israel journal of mathematics	0.545	0.48
10648598	New finite element for transversely cracked slender beams subjected to transverse loads	The paper covers the derivation of a new finite element for beams with transverse cracks. The derivation is based on a simplified computational model that has already proved itself suitable for the inverse identification of cracks. The model embodies all the necessary major information about the structure's response from the inverse identification point of view, where the presence and location and, if possible, the depth of the crack should be detected from the measured response, usually dynamic. In such situations the stress distributions obtained from 2D finite elements analysis are not as important as the computational model being capable of reliably describing the displacement of the structure. However, from numerical studies it also became evident that the relevance of the model decreases with element thickness. This indicated that shear forces should be included in the analysis process. Therefore, derivation of a new finite element with the inclusion of shear forces effect has been executed. The stiffness matrix for transversely cracked slender beams, as well as the derivation of interpolation functions is presented and all expressions are given in symbolic forms. The example shows that, although with significantly less computational effort than with 2D FE meshes, significant improvement in transverse displacements can be obtained with the presented beam finite element.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Computational materials science	1.135	1.682
10648921	On Herstein's Lie map conjectures, II	The theory of functional identities is used to study derivations of Lie algebras arising from associative algebras. Definitive results are obtained modulo algebras of ""low dimension"". In particular, Lie derivations of ?${\cal [K,K]/([K,K] \cap Z)}$?, where ?${\cal K}$? is the Lie algebra of skew elements of a prime algebra with involution and ?${\cal Z}$? is its center, are described. This solves the last remaining open problem of Herstein on Lie derivations. For a simple algebra with involution the Lie algebra of all derivations of ?${\cal [K,K]/([K,K] \cap Z)}$? is thoroughly analyzed. Maps that act as derivations on arbitrary fixed polynomials are also discussed, and in particular a solution is given for Herstein's question concerning maps of ?${\cal K}$? which act like a derivation on ?$x^m$?, ?$m$? being a fixed odd integer.	usa	Academic Press	2001	1.01	Journal of algebra	0.501	0.48
10649177	A note on choosability with separation for planar graphs	A graph ?$G$? is ?$(p,q.r)$?-choosable, if fpr every list assignment ?$L$? with ?$|L(v)| \ge p$? for each ?$v \in V(G)$? and ?$|L(u) \cap L(v)| \le p-r$? whenever ?$u,v$? are adjacent vertices, ?$G$? is ?$q$?-tuple ?$L$?-colorable. We give an alternative proof of ?$(4t,t,3t)$?- choosability for the planar graphs and construct a triangle-free planar graph on 119 vertices which is not ?$(3,1,1)$?-choosable (and so neither 3-choosble). We also propose some problems.	can	Dept. of Combinatorics and Optimization, University of Waterloo	2001	1.01	Ars combinatoria	0.149	0.48
10651163	Thermal stresses in aluminium alloy die casting dies	The aim of this research is to analyze the influence of Aluminium Alloy die casting parameters, die material, and die geometry on in-service tool life. An innovative immersion testing apparatus is developed, at which Aluminium Alloy die casting is simulated. It enables controlled thermal fatigue cycling.Special specimens with different edge geometry and specimens with maraging steel welds deposited by Gas Tungsten Arc (GTA) welding are prepared.They are subjected to cyclic heating in bath of molten Aluminium Alloy 226 and cooling in bath of water-based lubricant. The specimens are continuously internally cooled with cold water. The microstructure, hardness profile, and the surface cracks developed are periodically analyzed after completion of a particular number of cycles. Temperature transients at different locations of the specimens are measured and used in calibration of finite element model (FEM). The computation of transient stresses is performedby developed FEM. The influence of immersion test parameters, material, specimen edge geometry, and thickness of maraging steel surfacing welds on thermal stresses is studied. To improve thermal fatigue testing efficiency, a specimen of particular geometry and immersion test parameters are developed based on finite element analysis. The results showed significant differences in produced thermal stresses for analyzed materials, test parameters, and edge geometries. Maraging steel is found to be superior material for die casting dies, due to generation of lower stresses.	nld	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Computational materials science	1.549	1.953
10656028	Are we getting closer to purchasing power parity in Central and Eastern European economies?	In this article we examine the theory of Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) on a sample of Central and Eastern European economies. The article makes two main advances with respect to previous PPP studies. First, it employs a monthly database on real exchange rates for a panel of 12 Central and Eastern European economies by testing the theory separately with respect to the US dollar and to the euro for the period January 1994 to December 2008. Second, we utilize, among other panel unit root tests, the panel Seemingly Unrelated Regressions Augmented Dickey-Fuller (SURADF) test proposed by Breuer et al. (2002), which allows us to identify how many and which members of the panel contain a unit root. As our study found support for the validity of PPP in some reforming European economies, special attention should be devoted to individual country-specific factors that cause PPP deviations.	gbr	Chapman & Hall	2012	1.01	Applied economics letters	0.226	1.032
10658843	Suitability of maraging steel weld cladding for repair of die casting tooling Part II	This study was done to evaluate precipitation annealing of 18% Ni maraging steel repair welds during aluminium alloy die casting and to predict the prolonged in-service tool life. The emphasis of this study was the influence of post-weld precipitation annealing heat treatment and aluminium die casting thermal cycling on metallurgical and mechanical properties. A series of specimens of 1.2344 tool steel was prepared to which 1.6356 maraging steel wasgas tungsten arc weld clad. Analysis of weld microstructure and hardness was made in order to understand the metallurgical processes during heat treatment at elevated temperatures and at prolonged time. The Response Surfacemodel for prediction of hardness after heat treatment was developed. The edges of immersion test specimens are gas tungsten arc weld clad with 1.6356 maraging steel and machined to the final edge geometry. Two specimens were tested in as-welded condition and two in optimally aged condition. Testing was performed on specially developed immersion test apparatus, which enables the simulation of thermal fatigue during aluminium alloy die casting. After completion of a particular number of thermal fatigue cycles the weld microstructure and hardness were evaluated. A hypothetical model for prediction of precipitation annealing time during aluminium alloy die casting was proposed. The results showed that tool heating lasts 30% of molten metal injection time, preparing conditions for precipitation annealing at 10% of injection time, and precipitation annealing at 60% of injection time. These results, together with a finite element model for prediction of tool temperature and response surface model for prediction of hardness after precipitation annealing, enable accurate prediction of maraging steel tool hardness after any particular number of die casting cycles and consequently in-service tool life. The thermal fatigue resistance of maraging steel welds was compared to AISI H13 tool steel. The results showed superior thermal fatique resistance for AISI H13.	deu	Hanser	2008	1.01	International journal of materials research	0.819	0.738
10660630	Reconstructing domain boundaries within a given set of points, using Delaunay triangulation	Given an input set of planar points, which occupy a non-convex polygon area, possibly with holes, we reconstruct the shape of its boundary domain, without previous knowledge of which points or edges belong to the boundary. Our approach is based on different qualities of the Delaunay triangles inside and outside the domain. This method is heuristic and does not ensure success in all cases but it is very simple and there is no other method for this problem known to us. The method was derived on real GIS data but experiments show that it could also be used for mechanical engineering data, with positive results.	gbr	Pergamon Press	2006	1.01	Computers & Geosciences	0.802	1.142
1066121	Comparative analysis of inactivated wood surfaces	The surface inactivation of two wood species, yellow poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera) and southern pine (Pinus taeda), was studied following high temperature drying. Surface analysis involved X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, sessile drop wettability and fracture mechanics of the adhesively-jointed surfaces. The results showed that wood drying at high temperature (i.e., > 160 to 180 °C) caused modifications in surface composition. The oxygen to carbon ratio (O/C) decreased and the ratio of carbon atoms bonded to other carbon or to hydrogen atoms vis-a-vis carbons bonded to oxygen atoms (i.e., the C1/ C2 ratio) increased with drying temperature. In addition, the contact angle increased with the temperature of exposure, but decreased with time. A dependence on wood species was evident: southern pine surfaces always exhibited higher contact angles than yellow poplar. Also, the rate of contact angle decline with time, dq/dt, was found tovary with surface composition: this rate corresponded to O/C ratio-changes, especially in the case of southern pine. Southern pine was most susceptible toinactivation particularly when bonded with PF adhesive. Yellow poplar surfaces did not show significant inactivation when exposed to drying temperatures below ca. 180 °C. The results are explained by a relative enrichment of wood surfaces with non-polar substances, hydrophobic extractives and volatile organic compounds that become visually evident during the drying process at temperatures above ca. 160 °C. Little change was observed if drying temperatures remained below 150 °C.	usa	Technischer Verlag Herbert Cram	2004	1.01	Holzforschung	0.939	0.492
10661915	Relative decrease of tracer gas concentration as a measure of the ventilation effectiveness	An analysis of the ventilation effectiveness measured on a prototype system for local air-conditioning named PERMICS (Personal Microclimate System) was made based on simultaneous measurements of velocity field and of tracer gas concentration using the decay method. A new parameter based on a relative decrease of tracer gas concentration in the first minute of system operation dC(1) was introduced. The newly defined parameter has been verified by simulation results from commercial computational fluid dynamics (CFD) software. The usefulness of the parameter is the possibility to make quick measurements of the local efficiency of personalized ventilation systems.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10662233	On C [ast] -extreme points	Each weak?$^\ast$? compact ?$C^\ast$?-convex set in a hiperfinite factor (in particular in ?$B({\cal H})$?) is the weak?$^\ast$? closure hull of the ?$C^\ast$?-convex hull of the ?$C^\ast$?-extreme points.	usa	American Mathematical Society	2001	1.01	Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society	0.369	0.48
10662489	A  factorization problem for normal completely bounded mappings	Given an operator space ?$X$? and a von Neumann algebra ?$A$?, we consider a contractive mapping ?$q: A \stackrel{eh}{\otimes} X \stackrel{eh}{\otimes} A \to NCB(X^\ast,A)$? formally defined by ?$q(\sum a_j \otimes x_{jk} \otimes b_k) = \sum x_{jk} \otimes a_jb_k$? from the extended Haagerup tensor product ?$A \stackrel{eh}{\otimes} X \stackrel{eh}{\otimes} A$? into the space of ?$w^\ast$?-continuous completely bounded maps from ?$X^\ast$? into ?$A$?. We characterize elements of the range space ?$Im(q)$? by a factorization property involving decomposable operators and investigate various properties of that space. In the case when ?$X = B_\ast$? is the predual of a von Neumann algebra ?$B$?, ?$Im(q)$? is included in the space ?$DEC(B,A)$? of decomposable operators from ?$B$? into ?$A$?. Regarding ?$q$? as having values in that space, we show that ?$q$? is a quotient map onto its range. Then we prove that ?$DEC(B,A)$? is a normal dual operator ?$A$?-bimodule and that ?$Im(q) \subset DEC(B,A)$? is a strong operator ?$A$?-bimodule.	usa	Academic Press	2001	1.01	Journal of functional analysis	0.879	0.48
10663001	Matrix groups with independent spectra	The article deals with triangularizability of a group of matrices over an algebraically closed field ?$F$? with characteristic 0 under the assumption that the spectra of elements of the group satisfy an independency condition on their multiplicative orders and transcedental independency. Let ?$p$? be a prime number and let matrix ?$A$? be similar to a triangular matrix with diagonal entries ?$\lambda_1,...,\lambda_r, \mu_1,...,\mu_s$?. If for ?$i \ne j$? the orders of ?$\lambda_i$? and ?$\lambda_j$? are finute with greatest common divisor dividing ?$p$? and ?$\mu_1,...,\mu_s$? are transcedently independent over ?${\bf Q}$?, we say that the matrix ?$A$? has the ?$p$?-property. The main result in this paper is that every matrix group consisting of matrices with the 2-property is triangularizable, which is generalization of the result for a group of spectra in the set ?${1,-1}$?. Some remarks of general prime ?$p$? are also given.	usa	North Holland	2001	1.01	Linear Algebra and its Applications	0.423	0.619
10664025	Approximating commuting operators	The problem of approximating ?$m$?-tuples of commuting ?$n \times n$? complex matrices by commuting ?$m$?-tuples of generic matrices is studied. We narrow the gap for commuting triples by showing that they can be perturbed if ?$n<6$? and that they are not always perturbable if ?$n>29$?.	usa	North Holland	2001	1.01	Linear Algebra and its Applications	0.423	0.619
10664793	Semigroups generated by similarity orbits	We investigate the semigroups in ?$M_n({\bf F})$? generated by the similarity orbit of single matrices.	usa	Springer	2001	1.01	Semigroup forum	0.156	0.48
10665750	Sorption properties of flax fibers depending on pretreatment processes and their environmental impact	The purpose of this research was to investigate the influence of different pre-treatment processes, on the sorption properties of flax fibers and the impact of residual treatment baths on environmental pollution. Flax fibers were subjected to different scouring processes (alkaline, acidic and enzymatic scouring) and, subsequently, oxidative bleaching, with and without application of ultrasound energy. The sorption properties of differently pre-treated flax fibers were defined by iodine sorption value, moisture sorption, and water retention power. The residual pre-treatment baths were ecologically analyzed using total organic carbon, chemical oxygen demand, biochemical oxygen demand and biological degradability. The obtained results indicated that the alkaline, acidic and enzymatic scourings of flax fibers have a significant effect on their sorption properties and, consequently, on the bleaching process. The application of ultrasound in the scouring and bleaching bath increased the fiber weight loss and water retention power of the flax fibers, as well as improving the ecological parameters. The optimal pre-treatment process was enzymatic bioscouring because it provided a lower weight loss, a better absorptivity of the flax fibers, and is less environmentally harmful.	usa	Sage Publications	2006	1.01	Textile research journal	0.578	0.597
10666262	An impedance study of two types of stainless steel in Ringer physiological solution containing complexing agents	The effect of complexing agents EDTA and citric acid on the electrochemical behaviour of AISI 304 and orthopaedic stainless steels in Ringer physiological solution was investigated by potentiodynamic polarization method and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The content of Mo has a pronounced effect on the corrosion resistance, as evident by the broader passive range of the orthopaedic stainless steel containing Mo. The addition of complexing agents induces significant changes in polarization and impedance characteristics, i.e., the shift of corrosion and breakdown potentials in a more negative direction, an increase in current density, and a significant decrease in charge transfer resistance. The results were interpreted by the formation of soluble complexes of metal ions with chelating agents, especially EDTA, which suppressed the formation of the outer Fe(III) layer of the passive film. The impact of complexing agent on the electrochemical parameters was found to be related to its concentration in electrolyte and the stability constant of the complex formed with the related metal ion.	gbr	Chapman and Hall	2006	1.01	Journal of materials science. Materials in medicine	1.562	1.861
10666518	Substitution of the constant phase element by Warburg impedance for protective coatings	This paper proposes an alternative model for fitting electrochemical impedance spectra of protective coatings. It describes broadening of the semicircle in the complex plane, in the absence of corrosion reactions. In addition the infinite Warburg impedance circuit element is represented, which bridges existing parallel elements of the plate capacitor and resistor of a classical equivalent electrical circuit. The Warburg impedance element is the result of the Fick's second law on partial differential equation solution. The proposed model and, for comparison the model with the CPE element, are used on our epoxy protective system to describe EIS measurements. The proposed model shows a better quality of fitting for our EIS data in comparison to the model with CPE.	gbr	Pergamon Press.	2007	1.01	Corrosion science	1.895	0.661
10666774	Experimental analysis of injection characteristics using biodiesel fuel	This paper deals with injection characteristics using different fuels at different fuel temperatures. The fuels under consideration are neat biodiesel from rapeseed oil and some blends with diesel as well as neat mineral diesel D2. The fuel and fuel temperature influences are investigated experimentally in the mechanically controlled diesel fuel injection M system. At first, attention is focused on the injection characteristics, especially on fuelling, mean injection rate, mean injection pressure, injection timing, injection delay, and injection duration, which influence the most important engine characteristics. Furthermore, the influence of fuel temperature is investigated. On the basis of the measurements of pressure drop through the fuel filter, the minimum fuel temperature for safe engine operation is determined.	usa	The Society	2006	1.01	Energy & fuels	1.519	0.921
10670614	Application of material forces to fracture of inhomogeneous materials	The material forces concept has become an elegant tool in continuum mechanics for the calculation of the thermodynamic driving force of a defect. Based on this concept, we have recently shown that inhomogeneities essentially shield or anti-shield crack tips from applied far-field stresses. The goal of this paper is to illustrate this by considering the model example of a crack in a CT-type specimen that contains a bimaterial interface. The crack driving force is calculated as the sum of the far-field driving force and the crack-tip shielding or anti-shielding. Several cases of inhomogeneity in either thermal or elastic properties are considered. Rather simple hand calculations are provided in addition to numerical results to illustrate the advantages of using the material forces concept.	deu	Springer Verlag	2007	1.01	Archive of applied mechanics	0.523	1.049
10672923	The effects of changes in the climate on the energy demands of buildings	It is generally accepted that climate changes will have a major effect on our lives. However, buildings will also be faced with climate changes, and these changes will have an impact on indoor comfort, energy demands and the efficiency of building services, especially on those supporting free cooling and free heating. In order to predict the expected changes in a building's thermal response during its lifetime, it is necessary to look at the climate changes predicted for the future. In our study, the climate changes were considered by using simplified mathematical models combined with available test reference years to establish corrected test reference years. A transient simulation tool, TRNSYS, was used to simulate the indoor climate and the useful energy demand for the heating and cooling of different buildings with different free-cooling techniques. In order to predict the expected changes in a building's thermal response, the meteorological parameters for the moderate, continental climate region of Slovenia were taken into account. The study shows that during a building's lifetime, significant changes in useful energy demands can be expected - a decrease in the useful energy demand for heating of between 23 and 40% and an up-to-38-times increase in the useful energy needed for mechanical cooling. In buildings without mechanical cooling,the efficiency of the different free-cooling techniques should be increased by between 100 and 200% to ensure the same living comfort. The results presented in the study confirm that it is necessary to evaluate the consequences of global climate changes from the point of view of energy use in buildings, their construction and the building's service installations.	gbr	Wiley-Interscience.	2008	1.01	International journal of energy research	1.016	0.803
10675996	Diagonal cumulation of origin as an institutional incentive mechanism for cost optimisation in contemporary international business	In the emerging process of market globalisation, firms' strategic options for optimising their cross-border operations have broadened. This paper presents a strategic framework for developing an appropriate strategic response of firms by relocating their production facilities and framing their operational procedures in such a way that they may, as eligible beneficiaries, exploit institutional incentive mechanisms available in a specific region or a host country. More specifically, in the paper we explore a strategic option for lowering firms' operational costs through international operations by using the mechanism of diagonal cumulation of origin introduced by the European Union (EU) in its Common Commercial Policy towards selected non-member countries. Despite extensive discussions in theoretical literature on the conception of the rules of origin, only a few studies have explored the implications of this mechanism from the perspective of a firm's transaction costs in international business. This paper shows that the 'SAP+ diagonal cumulation of origin,' when properly conceived and implemented by a firm, can positively affect its financial performance. By analysing the cost-effect simulation of a selected household appliance producer in the presented case study, we then discuss the key strategic and operational implications for firms wishing to take advantage of offered supranational institutional incentive mechanisms.	hun	Akadémiai Kiadó	2011	1.01	Acta oeconomica	0.375	1.032
10676252	A market perspective of aligning university business education in transition countries with the emerging globalisation of higher education	The purpose of this article is to explore the implications of higher education globalisation and institutional changes in Europe in terms of their influences on the position of public business education in their local setting in Central and Eastern Europe. We analyse key institutional developments that frame the emerging European Higher Education Area and synthesize their influences on higher education in transition countries. With increased importance of knowledge for competitiveness of European businesses the traditional 'public good' paradigm is being replaced by a 'marketable goods' view. As university business schools in transition countries are particularly exposed to competition in the business education market and serve as key business knowledge providers to future generations of managers, we present a consistent model for the requisitely holistic and strategic management of business education institutions that enables managers to better align their institution with the challenges of an increasingly competitive market in business education.	ltu	Kaunas Faculty of Humanities, Vilnius University	2011	1.01	Transformations in business & economics	0.991	1.032
10685718	Proteinase-catalyzed hydrolysis of casein at atmospheric pressure and in supercritical media	In the presented work, reaction parameters for hydrolysis of casein, catalyzed by Carica papaya latex at atmospheric and high pressure, were optimized. Casein is a remarkably efficient nutrient, supplying not only essential amino acids, but also some carbohydrates, calcium, phosphorus and therefore is very important for the food industry. Different reaction parameters such as temperature, stirring rate, casein and enzyme concentration were studied to found the optimal conditions for the reaction. Reactions were performed at atmospheric pressure; an influence of temperature/pressure on the casein hydrolysis in supercritical carbon dioxide (SC CO2) was also investigated to improve the reaction rates. Higher conversions were achieved when the reactions were performed in SC CO2, even though casein was not soluble in this medium.	hrv	Croatian Society of Chemical Engineers	2006	1.01	Chemical and biochemical engineering quarterly	0.357	0.921
10685979	Improving repair management of bucket wheel excavator SRs1200 by application of project management concept	The losses resulting from the defect or breakdown of equipment amount to incredible sums, often far higher than the cost of maintenance, repair or reconstruction. It is for this reason that a large number of methods for maintenance and repair of industrial and other plants have been developed. Elaborated in much detail, these methods nevertheless leave a lot of space for improvement. The improvement is primarily viewed in the context of the management of time, resources and costs of such enterprises. This paper presents a certain concept of project management the implementation of which may improve the maintenance and repair projects. The concept was tested in practice and confirmed in the project of revitalizing of the bucket wheel excavator SRs1200 at MB Kolubara, one of the most complex projects of the kind in the region recently, in terms of technical complexity of reconstruction, the number of participants, the number of activities, cost and time of realization, as well as other elements of the project. The application of this concept allowed for achieving significant results in the technical and financial fields, which will further be analyzed in detail.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.04	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10686742	The aerobic biodegradation kinetics of plant tannins in industrial wastewater	This paper describes an experimental determination of the biodegradation rate for tannins present in industrial wastewater, after the extraction of chestnut chips. Experiments were performed in a laboratory aerobic reactor (Armfield) by using biomass from an existing industrial wastewater treatment plant. The outlet tannins concentration was determined under various processing conditions. Simultaneously, an optical microscope was used to monitor the mix of microbiological cultures in the biomass. On the basis of data obtained in experiments, non-linear regression was used to perform parametric analysis of various kinetic models, which took into account inhibition, as quoted in literature (Haldane, Edwards, Aiba, Luong). The statistical analysis, based on the P-criterion, F-criterion, adjusted coefficient of determination, Kolmogorov-Smirnov test and root mean squared error, showed that the biodegradation of plant tannins in industrial wastewater under selected conditions for aerobic digestion, can be most successfully described statistically by the Aiba's kinetic model.	hrv	Croatian Society of Chemical Engineers	2006	1.01	Chemical and biochemical engineering quarterly	0.357	0.921
1069391	Experience obtained from box trapping and handling wildcats in Slovenia	Wildcats Felis siluestris Sclireber, 1775 were captured for radio collaring asa part of a study of their spatial distribution and social organisation in southern Slovenia between 1999 and 2001. Double-door box traps, with a roof that bears easily break (bear permeable traps), have been used to capture individuals. The distances between traps were between 550 to 2200 m. They wereset out on logging roads and narrow trails in the forest. Nine wildcats, one lynx Lynx lynx (Linnaeus, 1758) and one feral cat were caught as target species and 19 badgers Meles meles and one bear cub Ursus arctos as non-targets. The catching success was 1 wildcatž58 trap-days and seems to be in correlation with the lunar cycle. Overall, 7 males and 2 female wildcats were captured which might indicate sex biased trapping selection. Methodological improvements shortened the time of handling procedures. Improved field protocols as well as restraining and immobilisation procedures increased reliability and safety of drug administrations, decreased potential chances for injuries and reduced overall stress of captured animals.	pol	Mammal Research Institute, Polish Academy of Sciences	2002	1.01	Acta Theriologica	0.945	0.917
10694427	Steps towards the development of an experimentally verified simulation of pool nucleate boiling on a silicon wafer with artificial sites	Nucleate boiling is a very effective heat transfer cooling process, used in numerous industrial applications. Despite intensive research over decades, a reliable model of nucleate pool boiling is still not available. This paper presents a numerical and experimental investigation of nucleate boiling from artificial nucleation sites. The numerical investigation described in the first section of the paper is carried out by a hybrid mechanistic numerical code first developed at the University of Ljubljana to simulate the temperature field in a heated stainless steel plate with a large number of nucleation sites during pool boiling of water at atmospheric pressure. It is now being redeveloped to interpret experiments on pool boiling at artificial sites on a silicon plate and as a design tool to investigate different arrangements of sites to achieve high heat fluxes. The code combines full simulation of the temperature field in the solid wall with simplified models or correlations for processes in the liquid-vapour region. The current capabilities and limitations of the code are reviewed and improvements are discussed. Examples are given of the removal of computational constraints on the activation of sites in close proximity and improvements to the bubble growth model. Preliminary simulations are presented to compare the wall conditions to be used in the experiments on silicon at Edinburgh University with the conditions in current experiments on thin metal foils at Ljubljana.	gbr	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Applied Thermal Engineering	1.349	0.986
10694683	Prediction of elastic recovery of a formed steel sheet considering stiffness degradation	The aim of this work is to show first, how the springback of a steel sheet drawn part is affected by the stiffness degradation, as it results from the damage evolved during forming process, and second, to build a respective modeling approach to take this degradation into account. For the considerationof the orthotropic elastic properties degradation we develop an approach, based on the Mori-Tanaka theory, where damage is considered by inclusion of ellipsoidal cavities. The respective void shape evolution is proposed to be identified with the measurements of elastic modulus in two perpendicular directions during the uniaxial tensile test of a flat specimen at different loading stages. The proposed approach is coupled with the Gurson-Tvergaard-Needleman (GTN) plastic potential, though it could be substituted by almost any other continuum damage model. At the end the presented approach is experimentally validated by a simple springback test, developed by authors. A very good agreement between by calculation predicted and measured springback amount is observed.	ita	Tamburini Editore SpA	2009	1.01	Meccanica	0.892	1.269
10698585	Application of the adjacency matrix eigenvectors method to geometry determination of toroidal carbon molecules	Torusenes are defined as closed toroidal networks where every vertex or atom is 3-valent, and they can represent pure carbon tori. Here we study the geometries of two classes: hexagonal torusenes containing purely polyhex networks and the second class, 5,6,7-ring torusenes which besides hexagons contain also an equal number of 5- and 7-membered rings. As sophisticated quantum-mechanical methods for geometry determination are time consuming for large carbon cages, and having in mind the huge number of their isomers, one is interested in methods which are simply to apply but which are still able to produce plausible geometries. One of them is offered by the adjacency matrix eigenvectors (AME) method. Its application to fullerenes is based on an appropriately chosen triplet of eigenvectors. A rational choice may be made on the basis of their nodal properties. No rules have been formulated up to now on how to apply the AME method to torusenes. In order to find such a rule a systematic study of nodal properties of torusenes is cruical, and such a study is the subject of this paper. Theoretical and computer experimental considerations presented here suggest that a triplet ?${\bf a_2, a_3, a_{opt}}$? fulfills the task where ?${\bf a_{opt}}$? should be checked for among those eigenvectors which possess no radial nodal plane but have one axial cut. In the present paper these findings have been elaborated for 5,6,7-ring torusenes with upto 270 atoms, and computer experiments have shown that similar findings hold for purely polyhex torusenes with up to 224 carbon atoms as well. In order to understand better this nodal properties, a quantum-mechanical study if free electrons on the surface of a torus was also undertaken.	usa	American Institute of physics	2000	1.01	The Journal of chemical physics	3.301	1.646
10702870	In-situ monitoring of internal oxidation of dillute alloys	This paper presents a non-destructive measurement method that enables identification and characterization of phenomena during internal oxidation of metallic materials as well as monitoring the kinetics of internal oxidation using ""in-situ"" electrical resistance measurements. A special laboratory device, based on the unique measurement cell, for the electrical resistance measurements at high temperatures and the model for electrical resistance transformation into an instantaneous microstructure were developed. To accomplish this, the process of internal oxidation was divided into the sequence of the key partial reactions that were presented in the model as the parallel andžor serial connected time variable resistors in the electrical circuit. The validity of the transformation model was experimentally confirmedby internal oxidation of Ag-Sn (2 at.% Sn) alloy at different oxidation temperatures in air atmosphere. The comparison of the results obtained by ""in-situ"" electrical resistance measurements with those obtained by metallographic analysis and Wagneræs theory shows that the novel method presents a more effective tool for monitoring of internal oxidation kinetics. The method identifies also the microstructural defects and their influences onthe kinetics of internal oxidation.	nld	Pergamon Press.	2007	1.01	Corrosion science	1.895	0.661
10704150	Rheological study of interactions between non-ionic surfactants and polysaccharide thickeners used in textile printing	The influence of four non-ionic surfactants (isododecyl and cetyl polyoxyethylene ethers) on aqueous polysaccharide solutions (sodium alginate, guar gum, and sodium carboxymethyl guar), applicable for textile printing pastes, were studied via rheological measurements. Rheology of polysaccharide-surfactant solutions in aqueous matrices is primarily governed by polymer content, which imparts marked shear-thinning and viscoelastic character to the system. Such properties are modulated in moderate but sensible way by changes in surfactant concentration or type. Above 3% surfactants addition to non-substituted guar gum solutions results in a significant impact leading to phase separation and a particular strongly associated phase is formed due to hydrogen bonds between ethylene oxy units from the surfactant and primary hydroxyl groups in guar. A satisfactory fitting of viscosity data is obtained with both the Cross equation and the Roberts-Barnes-Carew model. The experimental results of mechanical spectra can be described quite satisfactory with both the Friedrich-Braun and the generalized Maxwell models.	gbr	Applied Science Publishers	2007	1.01	Carbohydrate polymers	1.782	1.209
10704918	Cost optimization of composite floor trusses	The paper presents the cost optimization of composite floor trusses composed from a reinforced concrete slab of constant depth and steel trusses consisting of hot rolled channel sections. The optimization was performed by the nonlinear programming approach, NLP. Accordingly, a NLP optimization modelf or composite floor trusses was developed. An accurate objective function of the manufacturing material, power and labour costs was proposed to be defined for the optimization. Alongside the costs, the objective function also considers the fabrication times, and the electrical power and material consumption. Composite trusses were optimized according to Eurocode 4 for the conditions of both the ultimate and the serviceability limit states. A numerical example of the optimization of the composite truss system presented at the end of the paper demonstrates the applicability of the proposed approach.	kor	Techno-Press	2006	1.01	Steel and composite structures	0.300	0.74
10710617	On Hosoya polynomials of benzenoid graphs	For a connected graph ?$G$? we denote by ?$d(G,k)$? the number of vertex pairs at distance ?$k$?. Then the Hosoya polynomial of ?$G$? is ?$H = \sum_{k \ge 0}D(G,k)x^k$?. Some basic properties of the Hosoya polynomial of the molecular graphs of benzenoid molecules are etablished, and a recursive method for its calculation is presented. By means of this method explicit expressions for ?$H$? are obtained for a number of homologous series of unbranched catacondensed benzenoid systems.	deu	University of Kragujevac;Faculty of Science Kragujevac	2001	1.01	MATCH Communications in Mathematical and in Computer Chemistry	0.579	0.619
10710873	Aspects of edge list-colourings	An assignment of colours to the edges of a multigraph is called an ?$s$?-improper edge-colouring if no colour appears on more than ?$s$? edges incident with any given vertex. We prove that if ?$L: E(G) \to 2^N$? is an assignment of lists of colours to the edges of a multigraph ?$G$? with ?$|L(e)| \ge \lceil \max \{d(u),d(v)\}/s \rceil$? for every edge ?$e$? joining vertices ?$u$? and ?$v$?, and either ?$s$? is even or ?$G$? is bipartite, then ?$G$? has an ?$s$?-improper ?$L$?-edge-colouring in which no colour appears on to many parallel edges. We prove these results using a new vertex-splitting lemma which generalizes the vertex-splitting lemma of Hilton et al. (J. Combin. Theory Ser. B 72 (1998) 91-103). We present applications of our results to school timetabling and conference scheduling.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.301	0.48
10711129	On recognizing Cartesian graph bundles	Graph bundles generalize the notion of covering graphs and graph products. In Imrich et al. (Discrete Math. 167/168 (1998) 393-403) an algorithm that finds a presentation as a nontrivial Cartesian graph bundle for all graphs that are Cartesian graph bundles over triangle-free simple base was given. In this paper we extend this algorithm to recognize Cartesian graph bundles over a ?$K_4 \setminus e$?-free simple base, without induced ?$K_{3,3}$?. Finally, we conjecture the existence of algorithm for recognition of Cartesian graph bundle over a ?$K_4 \setminus e$?-free simple base.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.301	0.48
10711641	On complete intersections	We construct a three dimenzional closed complex submanifold in ?$\Cc^5$? which is a smooth complete intersection but not a holomorphic complete intersection. We apply the Oka-Grauert-Gromov homotopy principle to prove a result on removing intersections with certain clossed complex subvarieties in ?$\Cc^d$?.	fra	Institut Fourier	2001	1.01	Annales de l'Institut Fourier	0.517	0.48
10711897	Gottlieb's theorem for F-fibrations	We prove a generalization to ?${\cal F}$?-fibrations of Gottlieb's theorem about the total space of universal fibrations.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Topology and its Applications	0.280	0.48
10712153	On defining sequences for Cantor sets	Each Cantor set can have many essentialy different defining sequences and there is not canonical way to chose one. The natural approach of reducing the number of handles does not work if the complement of a given Cantor set is too nice (for example: simply connected). It is shown that there are no ""unnnecessary handles"" in the defining sequence of a given Cantor set if and only if the the Cantor set satisfied some weakened 1-ULC property.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Topology and its Applications	0.280	0.48
10714390	Method for detecting fatigue crack in gears	The most undesirable damage that can occur in gear units is crack in the tooth root as it often makes gear unit operation impossible. Monitoring vibrations can be used to detect defects. Time signals are acquired experimentally and afterwards. Different methods can be used to analyse them. The changes in tooth stiffness caused by a fatigue crack in the tooth root are of significance. The dynamic response of a gear unit with a damaged tooth differs from the one of an undamaged tooth. Amplitudes of time signal are, by time-frequency analysis, presented as a function of frequencies in spectrum.	nld	North-Holland	2006	1.01	Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics	0.691	0.741
1071473	Systemic conditions for performance of pharmacoepidemiologic studies in Slovenia	In Slovenia, the national health insurance system covers almost the whole population. The average patient receives six to seven prescriptions per year with an average value of 15 USD per prescription. This paper presents the systemic conditions necessary for the performance of pharmacoepidemiologic studies. A recent study addressing the use of antiepileptic drugs is an example. The current law on Personal Data Protection, which is compliant with EU Directive 95/46/EC, prevents infringement of personal integrity resulting from inappropriate use of personal data or inappropriate management and use ofdatabases containing personal data. Since July 2000, the Law on Health Care Related Databases has defined the databases and the ways data can be acquired,processed, transferred, and exchanged among persons authorized to perform health care services. When gathering additional data not currently contained in the health care-related databases defined by the law, written consent from participants is required, and study documentation must be submitted for approval to the national Medical Ethics Committee. The main legislation covering clinical and pharmacoepidemiologic research is the Medicinal Products and Medical Devices Act of 1999, together with its by-laws,which is also in accordance with EU Directives	usa	Wiley	2001	1.01	Pharmacoepidemiology and drug safety	1.330	1.978
1071729	Relationship between the sialic acid content of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and autoantibodies to oxidized LDL in the plasma of healthy subjects and patients with atherosclerosis	To determine whether the sialic acid (SA) content of the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is related to the plasma concentration of autoantibodies to oxidized LDL (oxLDL), we measured the SA content of LDL and the concentrationsof oxLDL and autoantibodies to oxLDL in plasma of 20 apparently healthy subjects and 20 patients with advanced coronary atherosclerosis. In the healthy subjects the SA content of LDL correlated positively with plasma concentration of autoantibodies to oxLDL. In agreement with the literature thedecreased SA content of LDL was associated with an increased fraction of oxLDLè a decreased fraction of oxLDL was associated with an increased plasma concentration of autoantibodies to oxLDL. In the patients the SA content of LDL and plasma concentrations of oxLDL and autoantibodies to oxLDL were not related. We conclude that the SA content of LDL correlates positively with plasma concentration of autoantibodies to oxLDL in healthy subjects. However, this association may vary depending on the stage of atherogenesis. Although our results suggest dependence of LDL SA content on the clearance of oxidatively modified (desialylated and oxidized) LDL from blood by autoantibodies to oxLDL, the mechanisms regulating the SA content of LDL awaitfurther studies	deu	Walter de Gruyter	2002	1.01	Clinical chemistry and laboratory medicine	1.407	1.652
10720601	A linear algebra approach to non-transitive expected utility	The purpose of this paper is twofold. One of the aims is to give a view of P. C. Fishburn's non-transitive expacted utility through geometric linear algebra. The other is to give application of these ideas to a social choice problem. Actually, the problem under consideration arises from the theory of dynamical systems of structures in a society (G.D. Allen, 1992; V. and M. Omladiè, 1994). A variation of this model (V. Omladiè, 1995) leads to the problem of how macro structures of a society form coalitions. Their possible irational behaviour may be treated using non-transitive expected utility.	deu	Springer	2001	1.01	Social choice and welfare	0.610	0.742
10723099	Project management of product development	The market requires that companies continuously reduce their product and process development time and costs, in order not to lose their competitive advantage on the global market. Short product and process development time in combination with low costs and achievement of required quality can be obtainedonly by integrating project management methods with concurrent engineering elements. Project management of orders combined with concurrent engineering elements allows for considerable reduction of development time, reduction of costs, and provides for a higher quality of order/product [1]. Order planning phase is very important in integrated product/process development. In the traditional product/process development, on average only 3% of total order development time is used for planning, while at the concurrent concept this time increases to about 20% [2].	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10723611	A device for simulating the thermoregulatory responses of the foot	A sweating thermal foot manikin was developed for evaluating the thermal and evaporative resistance of footwear. The sweating thermal foot manikin can be programmed to simulate physiological patterns of conductive, convective and evaporative heat loss. The manikin can simulate the initiation and magnitude of human non-evaporative and evaporative heat loss based on core and skin temperatures. The system comprises a computer controlled system for regulating the heaters in each of the 16 segments of the foot, as well as the sweating function provided by peristaltic pumps. Each of the 16 segments is autonomous: its heating and sweating responses are controlled independently, thus the calculation of the heat exchange can also be determined for each segment separately. Results of the footwear evaluation were compared to the results obtained for identical footwear with foot manikins from other laboratories.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10724379	Simple feedback structure of active noise control in a duct	An active noise control is usually constructed with the use of electronic filters. For sufficient noise attenuation, electronic filters are not always needed. In this case, the electronic controller and appropriate software is not required so the system can be much easier. This paper deals with the use of a feedback structure of active noise control in an experimental ventilation duct. Simulation was performed to investigate the efficiency of a simple analoguous system for active noise control without incorporating electronic filters. The transfer function of the entire analogous system can be used to predict the maximum attenuation level. Tests were made to verify the simulation and to show what noise attenuation level can be achieved in an experimental duct. It has been shown that in a specific frequency range this kind of a system is efficient enough for use in some ventilation ducts.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10724891	Impact of the guard grill on the integral and local characteristics of an axial fan	This paper presents the impact of the guard grill (GG) on the integral characteristic (IC) and local aerodynamic properties of the outflow of an axial fan (AF). The study of the GG's impact was conducted using measurements and numeric modelling at the integral and local levels. Measurements of IC were performed according to the ISO 5801 standard and the local velocity field was measured by using a five-hole probe. Numeric simulations of the machine's local characteristics were made in the same working conditions of the fan. The comparison of results was used in the analysis of the GG's impacton the fan's efficiency and in the analysis of the feasibility of the CFD modelling of flow conditions of the GG.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.03	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10729243	Aging of maraging steel welds during aluminium alloy die casting	The aim of this study is to evaluate precipitation annealing of 18% Ni maraging steel repair welds during aluminium die casting and to predict the prolonged in-service tool life. The emphasis of this study is the influence ofpost-weld precipitation annealing heat treatment and aluminium die casting thermal cycling on metallurgical and mechanical properties. A series of specimens of 1.2344 tool steel is prepared to which 1.6356 maraging steel is GTA weld cladded. Analysis of weld microstructure and hardness is made in order to understand the metallurgical processes during heat treatment at elevated temperatures and at prolonged time. The Response Surface (RS) model for prediction of hardness after heat treatment is developed. To the edges of immersion test specimens 1.6356 maraging steel is GTA welded. The edges are machined to the final edge geometry. Two specimens are tested in as-welded condition and two in optimally aged condition. Testing is preformed on developed immersion test apparatus, which enables the simulation of thermal fatigue during aluminium die casting. After completion of a particular number of thermal fatigue cycles the weld microstructure and hardness is evaluated. Based on these results a hypothetical model for prediction of precipitation annealing time during aluminium die casting is proposed. The results showed that tool heating takes place at 25% of molten metal injection time, preparing conditions for precipitation annealing at 15% of injection time, and precipitation annealing at 60% of injection time. These results, together witha finite element (FE) model for prediction of tool temperature and RS model for prediction of hardness after precipitation annealing, enable accurate prediction of maraging steel tool hardness after particular number ofdie casting cycles and consequently in-service tool life.	nld	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Computational materials science	1.549	1.953
10730329	A generalization of the Ando-Krieger theorem	Using a recent remarkable result of Turovskii we prove the following extension of the famous Ando-Krieger theorem to multiplicative semigroups of operators. Let ?$E$? be a Dedekind complete Banach lattice dimension of least two, and let ?${\cal S}$?be a multiplicative semigroup of quasinilpotent positive abstract kernel operators on ?$E$?. Then ?${\cal S}$? has a non-trivial invariant closed ideal.	hun	Kossuth Lajos Tudományegyetem	2001	1.01	Publicationes mathematicae	0.139	0.48
10731865	Approximately multiplicative functions	We consider the inequality ?$|f(ts) - g_1(t)g_2(t)| \le \delta$?, where ?$f,g_1,g_2$? are real-valued functions defined for nonzero reals. In the special case ?$g_1 = g_2$? our result is reduced to Šemrl's generalization of Baker's result on the superstability of multiplicative functions.	hun	Kossuth Lajos Tudományegyetem	2001	1.01	Publicationes mathematicae	0.139	0.48
10732121	Extended Jacobson density theorem for Lie ideals of rings with automorphisms	We prove a version of the Chevalley-Jaacobson density theorem for Lie ideals of rings with automorphisms and present some applications on the obtained results.	hun	Kossuth Lajos Tudományegyetem	2001	1.01	Publicationes mathematicae	0.139	0.48
10732377	Face covers and the genus of apex graphs	A graph ?$G$? is an apex graph if it contains a vertex ?$w$? such that ?$G-w$? is a planar graph. It is easy to see that the genus ?$g(G)$? of the apex graph ?$G$? is bounded above by ?$\tau - 1$?, where ?$\tau$? is the minimum face cover of the neighbors of ?$w$?, taken over all planar embeddings of ?$G-w$?. The main result of this paper is the linear lower bound ?$g(G) \ge \tau/160$? (if ?$G-w$? is 3-connected and ?$\tau > 1$?). It is also proved that the minimum face cover problem is ?${\bf NP}$?-hard for planar triangulations and that the minimum vertex cover is ?${\bf NP}$?-hard for 2-connected cubic planar graphs. Finally, it is shown that computing the genus of apex graphs is ?{\bf NP}?-hard.	usa	Academic Press	2001	1.01	Journal of combinatorial theory	0.514	0.48
10742043	Experimental investigation of PCM cold storage	This article presents an experimental analysis of cooling buildings using nighttime cold accumulation in a phase change material (PCM), otherwise known as the ""free-cooling principle"". Studies of the ceiling and floor free-cooling principle, as well as passive cooling, are presented. The free-cooling principle is explained and some of the types of PCMs suitable forsummer cooling are listed. An experiment was conducted using paraffin with a melting point of 22 °C as the PCM to store cold during the nighttime and to cool hot air during the daytime in summer. Air temperatures and heat fluxes as a function of time are presented for different air velocities and inlet temperatures.	gbr	Elsevier	2009	1.01	Energy and buildings	1.593	0.853
10756118	Antimicrobial disinfection effect of a laundering procedure for hospital textiles against various indicator bacteria and fungi using different substrates for simulating human excrements	Recent studies confirm the increase of nosocomial infections and microbial resistance. One of the possible causes is infected textiles due to inappropriate laundering procedures. Most Slovenian laundries use thermal laundering procedures with high energy and water consumption to disinfect hospital textiles. In addition to this fact, there is an increasing number of hospital textiles composed of cotton/polyester blends that cannot endure high temperatures of thermal disinfection. On the other hand, decreasing the temperature of laundering procedures enhances the possibility of pathogenic microorganisms to survive the laundering procedure. In our research, we determined the antimicrobic laundering effect by simulating a common laundering procedure for hospital textiles in the laboratory washing machine at different temperatures by the use of bioindicators. Enterococcus faecium, Staphylococcus aureus, Mycobacterium terrae, Enterobacter aerogenes, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa were used for determining the antibacterial laundering effect. Candida albicans was used for determining the antifungal laundering effect. Swine blood, artificial sweat, and swine fat were used as substrates for simulating human excrements and were inoculated together with the chosen microorganisms onto cotton pieces to simulate real laundering conditions. It was found that E. faecium, S. aureus, E. aerogenes, and P. aeruginosa survivedat 60 °C, but no microorganisms were found at 75 °C.	usa	Elsevier Science Pub. Co.	2007	1.01	Diagnostic Microbiology and Infectious Disease	2.448	3.005
10760537	On self-maps which induce identity automorphisms of homology groups	We derive a finite normal series for the group ?${\rm Aut}_\ast (X)$? of self-homotopy equivalences which induce identity automorphisms of homology groups, where ?$X$? is a countable, simply-connected and finite-dimensional CW-complex.	gbr	Scottish Academic Press	2001	1.01	Glasgow mathematical journal	0.304	0.48
10767900	Does non-linearity matter in retail credit risk modeling?	In this research we propose a new method for retail credit risk modeling. In order to capture possible non-linear relationships between credit risk and explanatory variables, we use a learning vector quantization (LVQ) neural network. The model was estimated on a dataset from Slovenian banking sector. The proposed model outperformed the benchmarking (LOGIT) models, which represent the standard approach in banks. The results also demonstrate that the LVQ model is better able to handle the properties of categorical variables.	cze	A.L.L. Production s.r.o.	2011	1.01	Finance a úvìr	0.346	1.023
10768411	Feed rate optimization in free form machining using NURBS approximation	Constant development of manufacturing technologies for quality improvement of machining results has become a very important fact in modern industry. Therefore, reducing machining time and improving machining operations through adaptation of cutting tool feed rates is a great step in this direction. This paper is focused on improved algorithm for efficient adaptation and calculation of feed rate variable that keeps the instantaneous volumetric removal rate constant during the machining operation. Feed rate values are established for a particular free form surface area, which is supposed to be an optimal area for applying milling-path strategy. Different obtained values of feed rates are then interpolated using NURBS approximation curve fitting approach, and in this way a very smooth transition is guaranteed between neighbouring surfaces. In addition also a new NURBS feed rate interpolator could be incorporated into an open-architecture CNC controller. The proposed approach results in much better surface quality and more stabile dynamic behaviour of machine tool, as well as in a reduction of cutting time, and in this way try to satisfy the constant growing requirements of today's machining needs.	gbr	Pergamon	2008	1.01	Computers & Industrial Engineering	1.057	1.018
10772507	Usage of the yield curve in numerical simulations	A comparison of two approaches used in the yield curve characterization of thesame material is given in the paper. The first approach is commonly used Ludwig's law with the extension over large strains based on the pre-necking response of a tensile test specimen, whereas the second approach is inverse identification which is based on the post-necking behaviour of the same tensile test specimen. Features of both approaches are examined in the tensile test and deep drawing simulations. In the tensile test simulation the inverse identification method proved to be superior over Ludwig's law. The deep drawing simulation demonstrates how inappropriate yield curve usage leads to wrong predictions.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10774873	Combinatorics of topmost discs of multi-peg Tower of Hanoi problem	Combinatorial properties of the multi-peg Tower of Hanoi problem on ?$n$? discs and ?$p$? pegs are studied. Top-maps are introduced as maps which reflect topmost discs of regular states. We study these maps from several points of wiew. We also count the number of edges in graphs of the multi-peg Tower of Hanoi problem and in this way obtain some combinatorial identities.	can	Dept. of Combinatorics and Optimization, University of Waterloo	2001	1.01	Ars combinatoria	0.149	0.48
10781211	Development of artificial neural network model for a coal-fired boiler using real plant data	Development of artificial neural network (ANN) models using real plant data for the prediction of fresh steam properties from a brown coal-fired boiler of a Slovenian power plant is reported. Input parameters for this prediction were selected from a large number of available parameters. Initial selection was made on a basis of expert knowledge and previous experience. However, the final set of input parameters was optimized with a compromise between smaller number of parameters and higher level of accuracy through sensitivity analysis. Data for training were selected carefully from the available real plant data. Two models were developed, one including mass flow rate of coal and the other including belt conveyor speed as one of the input parameters. The rest of the input parameters are identical for both models. Both models show good accuracy in prediction of real data not used for their training. Thus both of them are proved suitable for use in real life, either on-line or off-line. Better model out of these two may be decided on a case-to-case basis depending on the objective of their use. The objective of these studies was to examine the feasibility of ANN modeling for coal-based power or combined heat and power (CHP) plants.	gbr	Pergamon Press.	2009	1.01	Energy	2.952	1.335
10783577	Partial Hamming graphs and expansion procedures	Structural properties of isometric subgraphs of Hamming graphs are presented, generalizing certain results on quasi-median graphs. Consequently, a relation on the edge set of a graph which is closely related to Winkler-Djokoviæ's relation ?$\Theta$? is introduced and used for a characterization of isometric subgraphs of Hamming graphs. Moreover, some results considering semi-median graphs and expansions on isometric subgraphs of hypercubes are extended to general non-bipartite case.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.301	0.48
10783833	The range of a derivation on a Jordan-Banach algebra	The questions when a derivation on a Jordan-Banach algebra has quasinilpotent values, and when it has the range in the radical, are discussed.	pol	Pañstwowe Wydawnictwo Naukowe	2001	1.01	Studia Mathematica	0.399	0.48
10786844	The influence of external factors on routine ERP usage	Purpose - Enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems have been implemented in most organizations for a few years. ERP solutions go through three phases of lifecycle: selection, implementation and operation phase; the operation phase consists of the stabilization stage and the routine stage. To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of ERP system use in the operation phase, organizations need to research the factors that have impact on users' satisfaction. A literature shows that few published studies have examined users' adoption of ERP systems through a technological acceptance model (TAM) or examined external factors that have influence the intention to use an ERP system, or ERP use in the stabilization stage. The purpose of this paper is to expose and research external factors which have influence on ERP users in the operation phase of ERP lifecycle and to investigate the impact of those factors on ERP system use. Design/methodology/approach - The TAM proposed by Davis has been the most widely-used model for researching user acceptance and usage of information technology/information systems. Despite the existence of several additions to TAM connected with ERP use, the authors aim to make further contribution in the area of external factors. Within this context the present research is focused on the mature use of ERP system (more than one year of ERP use in an organization). A limited number of external factors mentioned in already published papers connected with TAM regarding ERP use has also been extended. The authors have researched the effect of external factors through the second-order factors on the original TAM. The model has been empirically tested using the data collected from a survey of 161 ERP users from a national telecom company, which has been using an ERP system since 1999. The model has been analysed using PLS approach. Findings - The study shows that extended external factors observed through the second-order factors have important influence on ERP usefulness and ERP ease of use; they also have a strong influence on the attitude toward using ERP system by ERP users in the routine (maturity) stage. Originality/value - The paper researches the factors which have an impact on ERP solution use in the routine(mature) stage of ERP lifecycle. The paper adds to the literature, in that few previous studies have examined the users' adoption of ERP systems through the TAM or examined external factors that have influence on the intention to use an ERP system or ERP use in the stabilization stage.	gbr	Embankment Press Limited	2011	1.01	Industrial management + data systems	1.472	1.05
10794262	Sensor for injection rate measurements	A vast majority of the medium and high speed Diesel engines are equipped with multi-hole injection nozzles nowadays. Inaccuracies in workmanship and changing hydraulic conditions in the nozzles result in differences in injection rates between individual injection nozzle holes. The new deformational measuring method described in the paper allows injection rate measurement in each injection nozzle hole. The differences in injection rates lead to uneven thermal loads of Diesel engine combustion chambers. All today known measuring method, such as Bosch and Zeuch give accurate results of the injection rate in diesel single-hole nozzles. With multihole nozzles they tellus nothing about possible differences in injection rates between individual holes of the nozzle. At deformational measuring method, the criterion of the injected fuel is expressed by the deformation of membrane occurring due to the collision of the pressure wave against the membrane. The pressure wave is generated by the injection of the fuel into the measuring space. For each hole of the nozzle the measuring device must have a measuring space of its own into which fuel is injected as well as its measuring membraneand its own fuel outlet. During measurements procedure the measuring space must be filled with fuel to maintain an overpressure of 5 kPa. Fuel escaping from the measuring device is conducted into the graduated cylinders for measuring the volumetric flow through each hole of the nozzle.The membrane deformation is assessed by strain gauges. They are glued to the membrane and forming the full Wheatstoneæs bridge. We devoted special attention to the membrane shape and temperature compensation of the strain gauges.	che	MDPI	2006	1.01	Sensors	1.373	0.99
10800406	Determining the magnetically nonlinear characteristics of a three phase core-type power transformer	This paper presents nonlinear iron core model of a three-phase, three-limb power transformer which is given by the current-dependant characteristics of flux linkages. The magnetically nonlinear characteristics are determined by controlled magnetic excitation of all three limbs which allows to take into account the variable magnetic-cross couplings between different coils placed on limbs, caused by saturation. The corresponding partial derivatives of measured flux linkage characteristics are used in the transformer circuit model as a magnetically nonlinear iron core model in order to analyze the behaviour of a nonsymmetrically excited transformer. Numerical results using transformer model with the determined iron core model agree very well with the measured results.	nld	North-Holland Publishing	2006	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.212	1.659
10800918	Comparison of capabilities of reluctance synchronous motor and induction motor	This paper compares the capabilities of a reluctance synchronous motor (RSM) with those of an induction motor (IM). An RSM and IM were designed and made, with the same rated power and speed. They differ only in the rotor portion while their stators, housings and cooling systems are identical. The capabilities of both motors in a variable speed drive are evaluated by comparison of the results obtained by magnetically nonlinear models and by measurements.	nld	North-Holland Publishing	2006	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.212	1.659
10801430	Dynamic two-axis model of a linear synchronous reluctance motor based on current and position-dependent characteristics of flux linkages	This paper analyses the impact of armature slotting and magnetically nonlinearand anisotropic iron core on the trajectories of a kinematically controlled linear synchronous reluctance motor (LSRM). A new magnetically nonlinear dynamic two-axis LSRM model is introduced in order to perform the analysis. The magnetic nonlinearities and slotting effects are accounted for by the current and position-dependent characteristics of flux linkages.	nld	North-Holland Publishing	2006	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.212	1.659
10802710	High-performance permanent magnet brushless motor with balanced concentrated windings and similar slot and pole numbers	The paper presents a comparison between the performances of exterior-rotor permanent magnet brushless motors with distributed windings and the performances of exterior-rotor permanent magnet brushless motors with concentrated windings. Finite element method analysis is employed to determine the performance of each motor. It is shown that motors with concentrated windings and similar slot and pole numbers exhibit similar or better performances than motors with distributed windings for brushless AC (BLAC) operation mode and brushless DC (BLDC) operation mode as well.	nld	North-Holland Publishing	2006	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.212	1.659
10803222	Torque ripple reduction in exterior-rotor permanent magnet synchronous motor	The paper presents torque ripple reduction in permanent magnet synchronous motor with exterior-rotor. The influence of the magnet pole arc width and the influence of the supply current waveform on the torque ripple are considered in the analysis. The results of the analysis are obtained by the finite element method simulation and are verified experimentally as well. The reduction of total torque ripple at nominal load conditions less than 2% is achieved by proper motor magnet pole arc design and by applying the optimal stator current waveform control.	nld	North-Holland Publishing	2006	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.212	1.659
10811420	Measurement of perceived quality, perceived value, image, and satisfaction interrelations of hotel services	In the present paper, first the conceptual model of perceived value concept as a mediating variable in tourist perceptions of hotel services is presented and afterwards tested with structural equation modelling. The study reveals that: (a) the relationship between perceived hotel quality and perceived value is strong and positive; (b) the relationship between hotel quality and guest satisfaction is not direct, but rather indirect through the perceived value; (c) hotel image is significantly positively related to perceived value and perceived hotel quality; and (d) perceived value strongly impacts hotel guest satisfaction. Further, invariance analysis shows that no significant differences exist in relationships among perceived quality, image, perceived value and satisfaction between tourists from Slovenia and tourists from Italy.	hrv	Institut društvenih znanosti Ivo Pilar	2011	1.01	Društvena istraživanja	0.152	0.966
1081151	Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in patients with atrial arrhythmias during acute myocardial infarction, treated with streptokinase	Atrial arrhythmias (AA), especially atrial fibrillation (AF), during acute myocardial infarction (AMI) are often associated with increased mortality and heart failure. Impaired fibrinolysis with elevated plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) activity is associated with resistance to fibrinolytic therapy in AMI patients, but it is also found in patients with AF. Our aim was a prospective study of the role of pre-treatment PAI-1 levels for the presence of AA in AMI patients and the influence of AA on in-hospital mortality. In 116 AMI patients, treated with streptokinase, pre-treatment PAI-1 levels were estimated by the chromogenic method (normal levels, 0.3-3.5 Užml) and in-hospital AA were assessed as atrial fibrillation, flutter and/or tachycardias. Between patients with and without AA, a significant difference was observed in mean pre-treatment PAI-1 levels, in several in-hospital complications and mortality (24 versus 4.4%; P < 0.01; odds ratio, 6.45; 95% confidence interval, 1.66-25.0). The PAI-1 level > 7 U/ml was the most significant independent pre-treatment risk factor for AA (P < 0.05; odds ratio, 3.5; 95% confidence interval, 1.15-10.6). We conclude that AA were a significant risk for in-hospital mortality of AMI patients, treated with streptokinase. A pre-treatment PAI-1 level > 7 U/ml was the most significant pre-treatment risk for AA in these patients.	gbr	Rapid Communications	2002	1.01	Blood coagulation & fibrinolysis	1.588	2.362
10812438	Utilization of municipal solid waste bottom ash and recycled aggregate in concrete	In the combustion process of municipal solid waste (MSW), bottom ash (BA) represents the major portion of the solid residue. Since BA is composed of oxides, especially SiO2 and CaO, the feasibility of its application in concrete as a substitute for cement was tested. It was found that at the age of 28 days, the flexural and compressive strengths of the binder linearly decrease at the rate of 0.03 and 0.02 MPa per wt% of BA in the binder, respectively. According to the results it may be recommended to replace up to 15 wt% of cement by BA and to use such binder where a low strength of concreteelements is required. Furthermore, the aggregate used for low strengthconcrete need not be of a very good quality. Therefore, gravel aggregate was partially replaced by recycled aggregate (RA). Consistency measured by slump was significantly reduced (>50%) when BA or/and RA were introduced into the mixture. However, concrete density and compressive strength were not affected and were 2300 kg/m3 and 40 MPa, respectively.	nld	Pergamon	2006	1.01	Waste management	1.223	1.186
1081449	Design of a series visco-elastic actuator for multi-purpose rehabilitation haptic device	Background. Variable structure parallel mechanisms, actuated with low-cost motors with serially added elasticity (series elastic actuator - SEA), has considerable potential in rehabilitation robotics. However, reflected masses of a SEA and variable structure parallel mechanism linked with a compliant actuator result in a potentially unstable coupled mechanical oscillator, which has not been addressed in previous studies. Methods. The aim of this paper was to investigate through simulation, experimentation and theoretical analysis the necessary conditions that guarantee stability and passivity of a haptic device (based on a variable structure parallel mechanism driven by SEA actuators) when in contact with a human. We have analyzed an equivalent mechanical system where a dissipative element, a mechanical damper was placed in parallel to a spring in SEA. Results. The theoretical analysis yielded necessary conditions relating the damping coefficient, spring stiffness, both reflected masses, controller's gain and desired virtual impedance that needs to be fulfilled in order to obtain stable and passive behavior of the device when in contact with a human. The validity of the derived passivity conditions were confirmed in simulations and experimentally. Conclusions. These results show that by properly designing variable structure parallel mechanisms actuated with SEA, versatile and affordable rehabilitation robotic devices can be conceived, which may facilitate their wide spread use in clinical and home environments.	gbr	BioMed Central	2011	1.01	Journal of neuroengineering and rehabilitation	3.264	1.549
10815771	Detection of cavitation in operation of kinetic pumps	Safe operation of kinetic pumps, as liquid movers, can be threatened by cavitation phenomenon in, amongst others. Cavitation is the Achilles' heel of kinetic pumps. It can cause deterioration of the hydraulic performance, damage of the pump by pitting and material erosion, and structure vibration and noise. Cavitation can appear within the entire range of operating conditions, therefore it must by all means be prevented. To prevent cavitation in a pump we have to know the beginning and development of the cavitation in the pump. For this purpose, the emitted noise in the audible range can be used, amongst other possibilities. Experiments have shown that there is a discrete frequency tone within the audible noise spectra, which is in strong correlation with development of the cavitation process in the pump. Therefore, the discrete frequency tone can be separated from the noise spectra of a cavitating pump and used to detect the incipient of cavitation and its development as well as to prevent the onset of the cavitation process in the pump, by means of initiating an alarm, shutdown, or control signal via an electrical control system.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2009	1.01	Applied acoustics	0.784	1.068
10816278	Transient finite element magnetic field calculation method in the anisotropic magnetic material based on the measured magnetization curves	A lot of magnetic materials are anisotropic. In the 3D finite element method calculation, anisotropy of the material is taken into account. Anisotropic magnetic material is described with magnetization curves for different magnetization directions. The 3D transient calculation of the rotational magnetic field in the sample of the round rotational single sheet tester with circular sample considering eddy currents is made and compared with the measurement to verify the correctness of the method and to analyze the magnetic field in the sample.	nld	North-Holland Publishing	2006	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.212	1.659
10816790	Interaction of z component of magnetic field between two samples of GO material in the round rotational single sheet tester (RRSST)	The magnetic properties of two grain-oriented (GO) samples of the same grade were measured under alternating and rotational magnetic flux conditions. Two samples were measured separately and then together in different arrangement toeach other. The interaction of magnetic field between two samples were measured by using a coil, which was placed in between. The results show that the Hz component influence measured magnetic properties in the x-y plane.	nld	North-Holland Publishing	2006	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.212	1.659
1081705	Two-level control strategy of an eight link biped walking model	This paper presents an adaptive two-level control strategy for a biped walking model and demonstrates its performance in a wide range of walking modes with considerably diverse model and control parameter settings. Proposed control strategy inherits a push off that resembles considerably to forceful extension of the trailing leg during push off in human locomotion and represents a very important source of forward propulsion. Extensive simulations have shown that adjustments in the push off related parameter on higher between-step control level after each step enable evolution of various walking modes of the biped walker at selected walking speeds and distinctive gait patterns. It also allows us to investigate the changes in gait kinematics and kinetics of the biped walking model due to changes in gait velocity, torso inclination and propulsion distribution profiles.	nld	Elsevier	2011	1.01	Simulation modelling practice and theory	0.969	0.978
10817302	The use of soft magnetic composite materials in synchronous electric motor	This paper presents some aspects of soft magnetic composite (SMC) material application in synchronous electric motors (SEM). The presented stator core of the SEM was made of two types of soft magnetic materials: the classical laminated silicon iron sheets and the SMC material. First, the stator core made of SMC, which was of the same shape as the laminated core, was analysed. The next step was to search for the optimal shape of the core. The comparison of both cores includes the calculated torque, magnetic conditions and simplicity of fabrication. The 3D FEM was used to analyse the magnetic conditions and the calculated torque. The design and the analysis were validated by experimental results obtained on the prototype.	nld	North-Holland Publishing	2006	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.212	1.659
10818075	The influence of the coordinate reduction on the identification of the joint dynamic properties	A problem of establishing a theoretical model of a joint from the measured frequency-response function (FRF) data is discussed in this paper. The model of the joint is considered as a coupled dynamic stiffness matrix, which generally includes six degrees of freedom (DoFs). For two types of least-squares solution the terms of use are clarified. The effect of coordinate reduction on the identification results is demonstrated numerically. Also the effect of added noise is studied. Using a substructure synthesis method and the identified joint dynamic properties the assembly response is reconstructed.	gbr	Academic Press	2009	1.01	Mechanical systems and signal processing	2.075	0.969
10819099	Bainite orientation in plastically deformed austenite	Experiments have been conducted to see whether specific crystallographic variants of bainite form in polycrystalline steel when transformation occurs from plastically deformed austenite which is otherwise free from externally applied stress. It is demonstrated by studying both overall and microtexture that there is no perceptible variant selection as bainite forms. Indeed, the texture is found to weaken on transformation.	deu	Hanser	2009	1.01	International journal of materials research	0.862	0.699
10819867	A method for rapid measurement of laser ablation rate of hard dental tissue	The aim of the study reported here is the development of a new method which allows rapid and accurate in-vitro measurements of three-dimensional (3D) shape of laser ablated craters in hard dental tissues and the determination of crater volume, ablation rate and speed. The method is based on the optical triangulation principle. A laser sheet projector illuminates the surface of a tooth, mounted on a linear translation stage. As the tooth is moved by the translation stage a fast digital video camera captures series of images of theilluminated surface. The images are analyzed to determine a 3D model of the surface. Custom software is employed to analyze the 3D model and to determine the volume of the ablated craters. Key characteristics of the method are discussed as well as some practical aspects pertinent to its use. The method has been employed in an in-vitro study to examine the ablation rates and speeds of the two main laser types currently employed in dentistry, Er:YAG and Er,Cr:YSGG. Ten samples of extracted human molar teeth were irradiated with laser pulse energies from 80 mJ to the maximum available energy (970 mJ with the Er:YAG, and 260 mJ with the Er,Cr:YSGG). About 2000 images of each ablated tooth surface have been acquired along a translation range of 10 mm, taking about 10 s and providing close to 1 million surface measurement points. Volumes of 170 ablated craters (half of them in dentine and the other half in enamel) were determined from this data and used to examine the ablated volume per pulse energy and ablation speed. The results show that, under the same conditions, the ablated volume per pulse energy achieved by the Er:YAG laser exceeds that of the Er,Cr:YSGG laser in almost all regimes for dentine and enamel. The maximum Er:YAG laser ablation speeds (1.2 mm3/s in dentine and 0.7 mm3/s in enamel) exceed those obtained by the Er,Cr:YSGG laser (0.39 mm3/s in dentine and 0.12 mm3/s in enamel). Since the presented method proves to be easy to use and allows quite rapid measurements it may become a valuable tool to study the influence of various laser parameters on the outcome of laser ablation of dental tissues.	gbr	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Optics and Laser Technology	0.892	1.659
10822422	All-fiber quasi-distributed polarimetric temperature sensor	This paper presents an all-fiber design of a quasi-distributed polarimetric temperature sensor array that utilizes commercially available single polarization and high birefringence fibers. The modulation depth of temperature induced loss and the operational temperature range of individual sensors in the network are set by the rotational alignment of fibers before fusion splicing and through fine adjustment of the sensing fiber lengths. A practical sensor network was built with sensors that operated in the temperature range from 0 to 100 C. Individual sensors in the network generatedtemperature dependent loss that changed proportionally from 0.9 to 1.8 dB. With current standard telecommunication OTDRs, more than 20 prototype sensors could be interrogated.	usa	Optical Society of America	2006	1.01	Optics express	4.009	1.239
10830876	A twenty-first century assessment of values across the global workforce	This article provides current Schwartz Values Survey (SVS) data from samples of business managers and professionals across 50 societies that are culturally and socioeconomically diverse. We report the society scores for SVS values dimensions for both individual- and societal-level analyses. At the individual-level, we report on the ten circumplex values sub-dimensions and two sets of values dimensions (collectivism and individualism; openness to change, conservation, self-enhancement, and self-transcendence). At the societal-level, we report on the values dimensions of embeddedness, hierarchy, mastery, affective autonomy, intellectual autonomy, egalitarianism, and harmony. For each society, we report the Cronbach's ? statistics for each values dimension scale to assess their internal consistency (reliability) as well as report interrater agreement (IRA) analyses to assess the acceptability of using aggregated individual level values scores to represent country values. We also examined whether societal development level is related to systematic variation in the measurement and importance of values. Thus, the contributions of our evaluation of the SVS values dimensions are two-fold. First, we identify the SVS dimensions that have cross-culturally internally reliable structures and within-society agreement for business professionals. Second, we report the society cultural values scores developed from the twenty-first century data that can be used as macro-level predictors in multilevel and single-level international business research.	nld	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2011	1.01	Journal of business ethics	0.963	0.831
10832729	Orthogonality in C [sub] p classes	Let ?${\cal C}_p$? denote the von Neumann-Schatten class, ?$\|\cdot\|_p$? its norm and let ?${\cal E}: {\cal C}_p \to {\cal C}_p$? be an elementary operator defined by ?${\cal E}(X) = AXB - CXD$?. We characterize those operators ?$S \in {\cal C}_p$? which are orthogonal to the range of ?${\cal E}$? in the sense that ?$\|{\cal E}(X) + S\|_p \ge \|S\|_p$? for all ?$X \in {\cal C}_p$?. The main results of this paper are: If ?$p>1$? and (i) if ?$A,C$?, respectively ?$B,D$? are commuting normal operators with ?${\rm ker}A \cap {\rm ker}C = {\rm ker}B^\ast \cap {rm ker}D^\ast = \{0\}$?, or (ii) if ?$A,B$? are contractions and ?$C = D = 1$?, then ?$S \in {\cal C}_p$? is orthogonal to the range of ?${\cal E}$? if and only if ?$S$? is in the kernel of ?${\cal E}$?. Furthermore, in both cases, the algebraic direct sum satisfies ?$\overline{{\rm ran}{\cal E}} \stackrel{.}{+} {\rm ker}{\cal E} = {\cal C}_p$?.	aut	Springer	2001	1.01	Monatshefte für Mathematik	0.230	0.48
10834009	Existence of polyhedral embeddings of graphs	It is proved that the decision problem about existence of an embedding of face-width 3 of an given graph is NP-complete. A similar result is proved for some related decision problems. This solves a problem raised by Neil Robertson.	hun	Akadémia Kiadó;Springer	2001	1.01	Combinatorica	0.643	0.48
10835227	Comparison of alternative approaches of single point incremental forming processes	Incremental sheet metal forming is becoming an attractive technology for fast prototyping and small batch production of sheet metal parts. The majority of investigations are focused on the use of a rigid tool to incrementally form the sheet metal into a final shape. An interesting alternative is to substitute the rigid tool with a high velocity water jet (WJ). The comparison between using a rigid tool and a WJ shows that each method has its advantages and disadvantages. This investigation is aimed to identify the most influential parameters affecting the forming process through experimental comparison of the two observed methods. Technological windows based on non-dimensional values and relevant process parameters like force on the rigid tool and water pressure were defined.	nld	Elsevier	2009	1.01	Journal of materials processing technology	1.420	1.067
10839062	What are the key elements of a sustainable university?	Nowadays, the principles of sustainable development are becoming increasingly important and universities are acting as agents in promoting these principles within society. In the future, universities will inevitably play crucial role in propagating these principles. This paper highlights important documents and discusses definitions of the term education for sustainable development. Elements, based on continuous feedback loop (Deming spiral) are discussed, in order to incorporate sustainability principles into university activities. The University of Maribor has been used as a case study to test the effectiveness of the proposed integration of sustainable development principles.	deu	Springer	2007	1.01	Clean technologies and environmental policy	1.016	1.7
10840409	The all-paths transit funcion of a graph	A transit function ?$R$? on a set ?$V$? is a function ?$R: V \times V \to 2^V$? satysfying the axioms ?$u \in R(u,v)$?, ?$R(u,v) = R(v,u)$? and ?$R(u,u) = \{u\}$? for all ?$u,v \in V$?. The all-paths transit function of a connected graph is characterized by transit axioms.	cze	Mathematical Institute, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences;Mathematical Institute, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic	2001	1.01	Czechoslovak Mathematical Journal	0.047	0.48
1084239	Induction of tuberisation in vitro with jasmonic acid and sucrose in an Australian terrestrial orchid, Pterostylis sanguinea	Effects of jasmonic acid (JA) and sucrose on tuber formation were studied in acommon tuberous terrestrial orchid Pterostylis sanguinea D.L. Jones & M. Clements (dark banded greenhood orchid) from southwestern Australia. Seeds were germinated symbiotically in vitro on an oatmeal agar (OMA) in the presence of a mycorrhizal fungus isolated from the orchid host. Ten week-old seedlings were transferred into culture vessels containing OMA supplemented with JA (at concentrations 0, 0.1, 1, 5 or 10 microM), sucrose (at concentrations 0, 5, 10 or 20 g 1-1) or combinations of each. Tuber development in all treatments occurred approximately twenty-six weeks after seed sowing. The addition of 5 or 10 g 1-1 sucrose with JA to the media resulted in higherè frequencies of tuber formation in comparison to the control. Significantly higher proportion of seedlings produced tuber when the medium was supplemented with 5 g 1-1 sucrose in combination with 5 microM JA, compared to the control. In vitro tuber formation of Pterostylis sanguinea canbe improved by combined addition of appropriate levels of JA and sucrose toOMA, which will aid in rapid in vitro tuberisation of terrestrial orchids.	nld	Nijhoff;Junk;Kluwer Academic Publishers	2002	1.01	Plant growth regulation	0.850	1.444
1084495	Rare and little-known fishes in the Eastern Adriatic during last two decades (1980-2001)	Backgrounds and Purpose: Studies of the icthyological fauna from Adriatic waters began in 18th century. Many other authors making lists of the Adriatic fish species during 19 and 20th century and some of them with special emphasis on the ocurrences of rare species in the Adriatic Sea...	hrv	Hrvatsko prirodoslovno društvo	2002	1.01	Periodicum biologorum	0.094	1.435
10846748	Diffusion of innovative behaviour with social responsibility	Development or existence of human society depends on innovations and the end of one-sidedness of behavior. The complexity of innovative processes has been widely studied, yet the success rate is still low. The purpose of this paper is to identify by the dialectical systems approach how some concepts, important for development of inventions into innovations can better support requisitely holistic innovative behavior.	gbr	MCB university press	2011	1.02	Kybernetes	0.240	1.153
10848028	The complexities of business school alignment with the emerging globalisation of business education	The purpose of this paper is to evaluate key implications of globalisation for business schools, and to put structural alignment of academic structures with the Bologna Declaration in a broader strategic alignment with the needs of a knowledge-driven society and a socially sustainable development. The analysis uses systems theory for analysing dynamic change in society and a synthesis of its influences on business education, as we see the Bologna Process is neither conceived nor implemented with sufficient care for holism in the European effort to become an innovative society. Business schools should extend their transformation effort beyond the Bologna Process and align their strategic model of operation with societal needs by integrating social requirements into their strategic framework. Research focuses on key external developments in business education at a transnational level. Future research should focus on the exploration of the business school response to social change in a local context. Emerging social challenges in Europe are taken as the starting point for realigning a strategic model of business school operation with societal needs and the business world with the aim to improve with innovative approaches schools' accountability and their evolvement into socially engaged actors. The paper presents a systemic and requisitely holistic view of social change for aligning the business school model of operation with the broader needs of a knowledge-driven society that stretches beyond the formal academic structures unification in Bologna Process.	svn	MCB university press	2011	1.01	Kybernetes	0.240	1.153
10848601	On simplicity of the maximal eigenvalue	It is shown that a maximal eigenvalue of a rank-one perturbed, compact, self-adjoint operator is automatically simple, if the norm of perturbation is large enough.	usa	Academic Press.	2001	1.01	Journal of mathematical analysis and applications	0.444	0.48
10850838	Crystal-structure and Mössbauer studies of Li[sub]1.746]Nd[sub]4.494FeO9[sub]9.493	The ?$Li_1.746Nd_4.494FeO_9.493$? (LNF) ternary phase, located in the ?$Li_2O$?-rich part of the ?$Li_2O-Nd_2O_3-Fe_2O_3$? system, crystallizes with a cubic unit cell of dimension and the space group Im3m. Refinement on F resulted in R=1.9%. The structure is comprised of a network of corners, edges and faces sharing the coordination polyhedra of neodymium. In between this skeleton the regular octahedra of oxygen-coordinated iron and trigonal prisms of lithium are located. The Mössbauer spectra revealed the presence of ?$Fe^3+$?, ?$Fe^4+$? and ?$Fe^5+$? ions distributed on two symmetry-independent lattice positions.	nld	Academic Press.	2007	1.01	Journal of solid state chemistry	2.149	1.847
10860566	Processing and characterization of AlMgB[sub]14-XTiB[sub]2 composites	Microhardness of 29.4 GPa in hot-pressed ?$AlMgB_14$? and Vickers hardness of 30.2 GPa in hot presses ?$70-wt%-TiB_2-AlMgB_14$? have been achieved through HTS of ultrahard, superabravive ?$AlMgB_14$?.	usa	The Society	2006	1.01	American Ceramic Society bulletin	0.210	0.623
10861851	Multiple parametric models of heat transfer in lightweight building elements with ventilated cavities	Lightweight building elements (LBEs) with one or two ventilated cavities are multifunctional building-envelope elements that lower the heat transfer to theambient and enable solar heating. In the case of two ventilated cavities they operate as recuperative heat exchangers in the buildingæs ventilation system. This paper presents the development of a calculation procedure for thecharacterisation of such innovative building-envelope elements. Using a commercial numerical tool, a wide range of influential parameters was studied.Based on the numerical results, multiple parametrical models (MPMs) for determining an effective U-value and the heat gains on the supply of ventilation air were developed for the case of an LBE with one ventilated cavity, meanwhile MPMs for calculating the effective U-value and the heat-recovery rate were developed for an LBE with two ventilated cavities. Such MPMs can be integrated into well-known computer tools for buildingsæ energy-efficiency simulations, for example, TRNSYS. The accuracy of the modelswas verified with field experiments.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10862107	Advances in water power-control hydraulics experimental research	Environmental protection regulations are becoming increasingly strict. By using water instead of a hydraulic mineral oil in power-control hydraulic systems we can make a very positive step in complying with these regulations. However, introducing the water instead of oil in power control hydraulics is rather novel and difficult task. Moreover, due to several specifics of water that are also discussed in this paper, several requirements need to be fulfilled in every test rig and test specimen. In this paper we present a newly developed hydraulic test rig that is designed for these specific requirements of water as the hydraulic fluid in power control hydraulics. For direct comparison with oil system, the test rig is designed as a twin system with two equivalent circuits: one for water and one for oil tests. Some interesting results on dynamic response of both systems are presented. They show significant differences between the water and oil hydraulics. With these experiments, the test rig proved the suitability for the research in this new area and showed a good control of the parameters measured.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10862363	Characterization of the vibrations and structural noise of a suction unit's cover	In this paper we report on a study of the vibrations of a suction unit's coverand the relation with the generated structural noise. The existing cover of the suction unit was designed, taking into account only the geometrical requirements. Two different methods were used for characterization of the vibration and structural noise of the cover: numerical modal analysis made with the FEM (Finite Element Method) and experimental modal analysis made during the operation of the suction unit. The results of the experimental modal analysis of the coveræs vibrations visually confirmed the results of a numerical modal analysis up to the 1st BPF (Blade Passing Frequency) and characterized the main exciting sources with the prevailing aerodynamic excitation. The vibration modal analysis tries to find a relation with the coveræs structural noise using an experimental local noise modal analysis. A different method of measurement of local structural noise is introduced.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2008	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.235	0.986
10862614	Combined edge detection using wavelet transform and signal registration	This paper presents a novel edge detection algorithm, using Haar wavelet transform and signal registration. The proposed algorithm has two stages: (a) adaptive edge detection with the maximum entropy thresholding technique on time-scale plane and (b) edge linkage into a con tour line with signal registration in order to c1ose edge discontinuities and calculate a confidence index for contour linkages. This index measures the level of confidence in the linkage of two adjacent points in the con tour structure. Experimenting with synthetic images, we found out the lower level of confidence can be set to approximately e-2. The method was tested on 200 synthetic images at different signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) and II clinical images. We assessed its reliability, accuracy and robustness using the mean absolute distance (MAD) metric and our confidence index. The results for MAD on synthetic images yield the mean of 0.7 points and standard deviation (std) of 0.14, while the mean confidence level is 0.48 with std of 0.19 (the values are averaged over SNRs from 3 to 50 dB each in 20 Monte-Carlo runs). Our assessment on clinical images, where the references were expert's annotations, give MAD equal1.36:1:: 0.36 (mean :1:: std) and confidence level equal 0.67 :1:: 0.25 (mean :1:: std).	nld	Butterworth Scientific	2006	1.01	Image and vision computing	1.171	0.937
10862619	Cylindrical wormgearings with progressively curved shape of teeth flanks	A wormgearing or a worm gear set, featuring concavely shaped worm contact flanks and convex worm gear teeth is proposed in this paper. Corresponding flank profiles are defined by a mathematical function enabling progressive curvatures of profiles. This function is used to define a basic worm profile in the axial plane, wherefrom worm flank surface and mating worm gear profile and flank surface are derived. Furthermore, cutting tools for manufacturing such wormgearing are defined. Kinematic circumstances are discussed in detail,thus disclosing the emergence of contact lines (surfaces). The essential characteristics of the proposed wormgearing are that its entire teeth flank surfaces in contact are involved in power transmission and that concave-convex contacts exist anywhere on flank surfaces. Thus, improved properties in power transmission and lubrication can be expected, consequentlyresulting in lower energy losses and lower wear.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
10862870	Surface properties of lubricants and hard coatings as predictors of frictional behaviour under boundary lubrication	The aim of the research was to investigate the surface properties (surface energies and their dispersive and polar components) of different hard carbon coatings in comparion to steel surfaces, and on the other hand, to also investigate the surface free tension of mineral and vegetable base-oils as also the additives` influence on the surface properties of lubricants. The main goal of our research was to discover to what extent the surface properties of each phase in the hard coating/lubricant system could be used for predicting the success of boundary lubrication.	deu	Maney Publishing	2006	1.01	Materials research innovations	0.523	1.659
10869531	Characterization of incipient cavitation in axial valve by hydrophone and visualization	As the effects of cavitation in valves are devastating, the choice of the correct valve for a given operating range is crucial. For this, the valve characteristic is needed, whereby one side of the operating range depends on the determination of the incipient cavitation. In this paper, the visualization method for incipient cavitation detection is presented. For the purpose of comparison, pressure oscillations inside the pipeline were simultaneously measured with a hydrophone. The effect of operating pressure was studied for two different openings of the valve. For each operating point of incipient cavitation, corresponding points were measured for developed cavitation and no-cavitation state, based on a constant-portion change of volumetric flow rate with regard to the incipient cavitation volumetric flow rate. The visualization and hydrophone signals were compared. The visualization method proved efficiency over hydrophone measurements because itis more sensitive to cavitation and the signal is independent of the operating pressure. The main drawback is the preparation of the observation window.	usa	Elsevier Science Publ.	2009	1.01	ETF science	1.234	0.969
10871579	Quality improvement of flame sprayed, heat treated, and remelted NiCrBSi coatings	In this study, properties of NiCrBSi coatings, produced by a two-step process of flame deposition and furnace posttreatment, are analyzed. Adhesion strength, microstructure, porosity, microhardness, chemical composition, and residual stresses were analyzed after deposition and after heat treatment; that is, remelting. Numerous specimens were made to study the adhesion strength of coatings after flame deposition. The four chosen influential factors, that is, surface roughness, preheat temperature of the substrate, distance of flame torch, and type of oxyacetylene flame, were optimized to maximize the adhesion strength, using the Taguchi parametric method. The confirmation experiment showed that the developed experimental model is suitable for optimization of flame spraying deposition process. Based on the evaluation of coating properties, the best overall quality was obtained after remelting at a peak temperature 1080 °C with 5 minutes of holding time, followed by slow air cooling.	usa	ASM International	2009	1.01	Journal of thermal spray technology	1.338	1.184
10874390	Reduced conductive EMI in switched-mode DC-DC power converters without EMI filters: PWM versus randomized PWM	This paper addresses improved electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) in switched-mode power converters (SMPCs), without using electromagnetic interference (EMI) filters. A practical solution is proposed for minimizing conductive EMI in a pulsewidth modulated (PWM), and random PWM dc-dc power converters. A comparative investigation is performed into the use of differentrandom modulation schemes (driven by the DSP-2 board with the TMS320C32) as against the normal PWM. The effectiveness of randomization on spreading those dominating frequencies that normally exist in constant frequency PWM schemes is evaluated by power spectral density (PSD) estimations in the low-frequency range. Some parasitical- and topology-based EMI sources in devices are presented and frequency analysis is shown by using the discrete Fourier transform (DFT). SPICE simulations are also used to verify practical solutions for eliminating negative EMI sources and achieving EMC improvements. Finally, levels of conductive EMI are estimated with DFT, and experimentally verified to comply with the CISPR 25 (or EN 55025) regulations. Moreover, it is clearly shown, that limited speed PWM driving of the power switches with appropriate snubber circuits guarantees reduced conductive EMI. When considering the price and high EMC, in the final solutionthe power converter is driven by the u-controller PIC16F876 with limited numerical and peripheral capabilities, where only normal PWM and randomized PWM can be implemented.	usa	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2006	1.01	IEEE transactions on power electronics	1.029	0.942
10878517	Cadmium measurements in blood and hair of occupationally non-exposed military recruits and in the foods of plant origin produced in Slovenia	Aim. To determine the cadmium content in the most frequently consumed foods ofplant origin, assess the cadmium content in the biological materials (blood,hair) of the Slovenian young males, and verify the hypothesis that the cadmium pollution of the environment varies regionally in Slovenia, which willalso reflect in the cadmium content in the biological materials researched. Methods. We analzyed 982 composite samples of plant origin foods. The cadmiumburden in the population was assessed by analzying the cadmium content in biological materials (full blood, hair) of randomly selected healthz males,18-26 zears of age. Results. According to the regions where the foods were produced, the differences in the cadmium burden were statistically significant (p=0.0005). The median cadmium content in the blood (N=463) was 0.5 g/L. The median cadmium content in the hair (N=245) was 4 ng/g. Varzing with the region of permanent residence, the differences in cadmium content varied statisticallz significant in the blood (p<0.0005) and hair samples (p<0.003) as well. Cadmium burden in plant origin foods and the cadmium content in the blood showed only a weak correlation (Spearman's rho=0.13). The correlation between the cadmium foods and the cadmium content in the hair, however, is much stronger (Spearman's rho =0.55). Conclusion. Our research confirm the hypothesis of regional variation of cadmium in the environment, and connection with the cadmium burden in the population of those regions.	hrv	Medicinska naklada	2003	1.01	Croatian medical journal online	0.943	2.111
10882587	Machine learning induction of a model for online parameter selection in EDM rough machining	In electrical discharge machining (EDM), appropriate average current in the gap has to be selected for the given machining surface in order to obtain the highest material removal rate at low electrode wear. Thus, rough machining parameters have to be selected according to the machining surface. In the caseof sculptured features, the machining surface varies with the depth of machining. Hence, the machining parameters have to be selected online to obtain appropriate current density in the gap. In this paper, inductive machine learning is used to derive a model based on the voltage and current inthe gap. The sufficient inputs to the model are only two discharge attributes extracted from the voltage signal in the gap. The model successfully selects between two machining parameter settings that obtain different average surface current in the gap. It requires only voltage signal acquisition during the machining process and a simple algorithm that is easy to implement on industrial machines.	gbr	IFS Publications	2009	1.01	International journal, advanced manufacturing technology	1.128	1.067
1088831	Intraocular pressure response of capsular glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma to selective Nd	Purpose. To compare the intraocular pressure (IOP) response of uncontrolled capsular glaucoma (CG) and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) to selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) in a prospective clinical trial. Methods. Ten eyes of ten patients suffering from uncontrolled CG (CG Group) and ten eyes of ten patients with uncontrolled POAG (POAG Group) were treated with a frequency-doubled, Q-switched Nd: YAG laser (532 nm). The baseline characteristics were similar in both groups. IOP was measured before and 1 day, 1 week, 1 month and 3, 6, 9, 12, 15 and 18 months after treatment. Success was defined as IOP more than 20% lower than before treatment. Any change of hypotensive medication led to the subjects' exclusion from the study. The two groups were compared using the independent-sample t test for continuous variables and the log-rank test for survival analysis. A value of p<0.05 was considered significant. Results. The mean follow-up was 12.0 months (SD 5.5) for the CG group and 13.5 months (SD 4.3) for POAG (n.s.). No significant difference was found between the two groups for mean pretreatment IOP (23.6 mmHg +/- 5.70 in the CG group and 22.8 mmHg +/- 2.44 in the POAG group) or for mean IOP and mean IOP reductions during the follow-up. At all follow-up visits, IOP was reduced less in the CG group than in the POAG group (24.8% +/- 11.15 vs. 27.7% +/- 9.91 at 6 months, 22.0% +/- 6.66 vs. 30.6% +/- 6.35 at 12 months, and 31.4% +/- 5.55 vs. 35.1% +/- 1.75 at 18 months), but the difference was significant only at 12 months. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis gave an 18-month success rate of 64% in the CG group and 78% in the POAG group, with no significant differences between the groups. Conclusions. SLT is an effective procedure for lowering IOP in CG and POAG eyes, although the effect seems to last less in CG eyes.	ita	Wichtig editore	2002	1.01	European journal of ophthalmology	0.483	1.339
10893078	Cost-effective synthesis of AlMgB[sub]14-xTiB[sub]2	As an alternative to mechanical alloying, high temperature synthesis of ultra hard superabrasive AlMGB14 was performed under normal pressure. The reaction mixture consisted of elemental aluminium and boron, whereas magnesium was added in the form of a Mg-precursor which liberates elemental magnesium app. 400°C above the melting point of magnesium, in this way reducing its evaporation during heating-up. 95 wt % conversion to AlMgB14 and 5 wt % to MgAl2O4 was achieved. The synthesized AlMgB14 baseline powder, as well as mixtures of AlMgB14 consisting of 30, 50 and 70 wt% of TiB2 were hot pressed to near theoretical density. The various samples produced were characterized for microstructure and hardness. A micro-hardness of 29.4GPa in hot pressed AlMgB14 and a maximum Vickers micro-hardness of 30.2GPa in hot pressed samples of AlMgB14 reinforced with 70 wt% of TiB2 was achieved.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Journal of the European Ceramic Society	1.562	0.62
10898715	Time dependant measurements of cavitation damage	Due to the extremely long length of experiments, in most studies of cavitationerosion only damage in the incubation period is measured and the final damage (mass loss rate) is then predicted by extrapolation. The methods of extrapolation are usually very basic since there were almost no in depth time dependant measurements of cavitation erosion performed in the past. A rotating disc test rig that generates a very aggressive cavitation and pure copper specimens, as erosion sensors, were used to investigate the correlationbetween the damage within the incubation period and final mass loss. The damage was measured optically three times during the incubation period and by weighing the specimen during the rest of the experiment. The results confirmed that the same clear relationship between the damage in the incubation period and the final mass loss rate exists, what means, that the mass loss rate can indeed be qualitatively predicted on the basis of measurements performed within the incubation period. This is a good basis for developing laws of extrapolation from a short time scale (laboratory measurement within the incubation period) to the real time scale (machine operation).	che	Elsevier	2009	1.01	Wear	1.771	0.969
10902361	Linear operators preserving the numerical range (radius) on triangular matrices	We characterize those linear operators on triangular or diagonal matrices preserving the numerical range or radius.	usa	Gordon and Breach	2001	1.01	Linear & multilinear algebra	0.353	0.504
10912283	Experimental investigation of the interaction of two flows on the axial fan hollow blades by flow visualization and hot-wire anemometry	Experimental investigation of the interaction of internal flow with external flow around hollow airfoil NACA series in a low-speed wind tunnel was conducted and is presented in the paper. The region near the trailing edge of the hollow airfoil was studied in detail and measurements of velocity and turbulence intensities were performed with hot-wire anemometry. Determination of flow structure on the hollow airfoil was performed with computer-aided visualization. It can be concluded from the measurement analysis that higher values of velocities, lower turbulence intensities and a significant decrease of circulation effects on the suction side of the hollow blade were achieved, due to the introduction of internal flow. The results obtained on the hollow airfoil were applied on the rotating axial fan. Influence of the internal flowof the hollow blade on the flow field of the axial fan was studied. With the introduction of the internal flow a reduction of circulation effects on the fan hollow blade was achieved. Aerodynamic characteristic of the axial fanreached higher degree of total pressure difference and normalized efficiency through the entire fan working conditions.	usa	Elsevier Science Publ.	2009	1.01	ETF science	1.234	0.969
10912539	Numerical and experimental investigation of axial fan with trailing edge self-induced blowing	Axial fans often showadverseflowconditions at the fan hub and at the tip of the blades. In the present paper, amodification of conventional axial fan blades with numerical and experimental investigation is presented. Hollow blades were manufactured from the hub to the trailing edge at the tip of the blades. They enable the formation of self-induced internal flow through internal passages. The internal flow enters the internal radial flowpassages of the hollowblades through the openings near the fan hub and exits through the trailing edge slots at the tip of the blade. The study of the influence ofinternal flow on the flow field of axial fan and the modifications of aerodynamic characteristics of the axial fan have been made. The numerical andexperimental results show a comparison of integral and local characteristics of the axial fan with the internal flow, compared to characteristics of a geometrically equivalent fan without internal flow. The experimental results of local characteristics were performed with a five-hole probe and computer-aided visualization.Areduction of adverse flowconditions near the trailing edge at the tip of the blade was achieved, as well as boundary layer reduction on the blade suction side and the reduction of flow separation. The introduction of self-induced blowing led to the preservation of the direction of external flow, defined by blade geometry, and enabledmaximal local energy conversion. The integral characteristic reached higher degree of efficiency.	deu	VDI-Verlag GmbH	2009	1.01	Forschung im Ingenieurwesen	0.391	0.918
10916360	Birhythmicity, trirhythmicity and chaos in bursting calcium oscillations	We have analyzed various types of complex calcium oscillations. The oscillations. The oscillations are explained with a model based on calcium-induced calcium release (CICR). In addition to the endoplasmic reticulum as the main intracellular Ca2+ store, mitochondrial and cytosolic Ca2+ binding proteins are also taken into account. This model was previously proposed for the study of the physiological role of mitochondria and the cytosolic proteins in gene rating complex Ca2 oscillations [1]. Here, we investigated the occurrence of different types of Ca2+ oscillations obtained by the model, i. e. simple oscillations, bursting, and chaos. In a bifurcation diagram, we have shown that all these various modes of oscillatory behaviour are obtained by a change of only one model parameter, which corresponds to the physiological variability of an agonist. Bursting oscillations were studied in more detail because they express birhythmicity, trirhythmicity and chaotic bahavior. Two different routes to chaos are observed in the model: in addition to the usual period doubling cascade, we also show intermittency. For the characterization of the chaotic behavior, we made use of return maps and Lyapunov exponents. The potential biological role of chaos in intracellular signaling is discussed. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Biophysical chemistry	1.918	2.064
10919195	Autonomous on-line system for fracture identification at incremental sheet forming	Before starting, the production forming processes require real experiments in order to accurately define forming limits. For this reason and because incremental sheet metal forming technology requires a relatively long production time, an autonomous on-line system for fracture identification has been developed. The system is a versatile tool for the identification of the location and time of the occurrence of the fracture, without human influences or oversight. The system is based on an investigation of the forming forces, responsive to very small variations, appearing during the forming process, andworks effectively with different material types, material thicknesses and product shapes.	che	Technische Rundschau;Hallwag Verlag;Colibri	2009	1.01	CIRP annals	1.603	1.067
1092201	Time trends in ability level and functional outcome of stroke and multiple sclerosis patients undergoing comprehensive rehabilitation in Slovenia	Background: The University Rehabilitation Institute in Ljubljana provides comprehensive rehabilitation for the whole territory of Slovenia. The aim of the study was to verify a clinical observation that the demandingness of rehabilitation has been increasing because of a decrease in patients' functional abilitites on admission, with rehabilitation outcomes having remained unchanged or even improved. Methods: Functional Independence Measure (FIM) scores of 651 cerebrovascular insult (CVI) and 151 multiple sclerosis (MS) patients gathered between September 2004 and September 2006 (all eligible cases) were compared with those for patients with the same diagnosis (N=144 and 74, respectively) collected during the period from September 1999 to September 2000 (a random sample), considering only first-admission cases. The average FIM (motor, cognitive and total) scores and FIM gain after rehabilitation during the two periods were determined for each diagnostic group adjusted for patient age. Rehabilitation efficiency and effectiveness levels were compared in the same way. Effect Size and Standardised Response Mean were also analysed. Results: There were no differences in gender structure of the groups between the periods studied. During the recent period,the average age was higher by around two years in both groups. The length of stay was marginally shortened for CVI patients and remained unchanged for MS patients. There were no differences between the two periods concerning the time elapsed since stroke. In both groups, admission motor and cognitive FIM scores were on average approximately five points lower in the recent period, while the average rehabilitation gain from admission to discharge increased over time (in total by 1 in CVI patients and by 3 in MS patients). Regarding motor and total FIM scores, the standardised gain, rehabilitation efficiency and rehabilitation effectiveness increased as well. Conclusions: The Institute is admitting more severely affected patients than it did five to ten years ago, and parallelly the patient age has increased. Despite that and notwithstanding the tendency towards shorter rehabilitation, expected age-adjusted functional independence gain, rehabilitation efficiency, rehabilitation effectiveness, and the standardised functional independence gain have increased.	svn	Inštitut za varovanje zdravja Republike Slovenije	2011	1.01	Zdravstveno varstvo	0.452	1.491
10927705	Inequalities for products of spectral radii	It is shown that submultiplicative inequalities for spectral radii often imply supermultiplicative inequalities, and vice versa.	usa	American Mathematical Society	2001	1.01	Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society	0.369	0.48
10934811	Simulations of single charged particle motion in external magnetic and electric fields	In this paper we present a software package for computational modeling of single particle motion in static and dynamic external magnetic and electric fields and show applications of our package to general cases and particular cases of space, laboratory and fusion plasmas. In addition we further elaborate on the properties of a new concept named Larmor Center Trajectory that we introduced in our previous work [D. Erzen, J.P. Verboncoeur, J. Duhovnik, N. Jeli, Int. J. Multiphys. 1, 419 (2007)] as a generalization of the well known guiding center approximation, and show the ranges of applicability of this concept, especially in strongly inhomogeneous fields when adiabatic approximations break.	fra	Springer	2009	1.01	The European physical journal	1.420	2.096
10936347	On the modeling of vibration transmission over a spatially curved cable with casing	We propose an approach to the vibration modeling of spatially curved steel wires with a casing and a contact between the outer casing and the inner steelwire. For the mathematical model of the steel wire and the outer casing, the Euler-Bernoulli beam theory with no axial pre-load is used, and for the discretisation, finite elements are used. The excitation of the steel wire andthe outer casing is in the form of random kinematic excitation. For the energy dissipation the proportional viscous damping model and the structural damping model are used. The damping parameters are identified from the Nyquistdiagram and from the continuous wavelet transform. For the identification of the frequency dependence of the dynamic modulus of elasticity a method is proposed that uses the measured natural frequencies andthe experimentally determined natural modes. The contact between the steel wire and the outer casing is modelled using the penalty method with the friction in a tangential direction. We show that higher values of the frictioncoefficient have a significant influence on lowering the level of vibration transmission. The model also predicts that the dynamic modulus of the elasticity of a steel wire does not have a major influence on the level ofvibration transmission, which was also validated by experiment. On the basisof an experimental validation the model of a steel wire with an outer casing proved to be suitable for the prediction of the vibration transmission.	gbr	Academic Press	2009	1.01	Journal of Sound and Vibration	1.414	0.969
10936603	Introduction of damping into the flexible multibody belt-drive model	In this paper the belt-drive model using an absolute nodal coordinate formulation is presented. Using this approach the damping forces are usually neglected and only the elastic forces are taken into account. The aim of this paper is to introduce a damping mechanism into the belt-drive model and to verify it against experimental data. Different damping mechanisms are proposed for the damping of the longitudinal and bending deformations and several experiments were conducted in order to obtain the damping properties. Good agreement between the numerical result and the experimentally obtained data was found. Finally, the applicability of the belt-drive model was presented in a comparison with the pinned-pinned beam model.	gbr	Academic Press	2009	1.01	Journal of Sound and Vibration	1.414	0.969
10942553	Extension of maps to nilpotent spaces	We show that every compactum has cohomological dimension 1 with respect to a finitely generated nilpotent group ?$G$? whenever it has cohomological dimension 1 with respect to the abelianization of ?$G$?. This is applied to the extension theory condition for a finite-dimensional compactum ?$X$? for extendability of every map from a closed subset of ?$X$? into a nilpotent ?$CW$?-complex ?$M$? with finitely generated homotopy groups over all of ?$X$?.	can	Canadian Mathematical Congress	2001	1.01	Canadian mathematical bulletin	0.193	0.48
10942809	Integrable anharmonic oscillators on spheres and hyperbolic spaces	We construct two new examples of integrable Hamiltonian systems. They describe the motion of the particle under the influence of certain quartic potentials. The first systems describes such a motion on the ?$n$?-dimensional sphere. The second describes the motion of the n-dimensional hyperbolic space. Here ?$n$? is an arbitrary positive integer. We represent the system on a ?$(2n+1)$?-dimensional sphere with an additional ?$U(1)$?-symmetry as a symplectic reconstruction of a system which has a topologically non-trivial magnetic term and whose configuration space is the ?$n$?-dimensional complex projective space. We use this description to give analternative proof of the integrability of the system on the odd-dimensional sphere.	gbr	IOP Publishing;LMS Publishing	2001	1.01	Nonlinearity	1.159	0.619
10943516	A holistic project-knowledge society as a condition for solving global strategic crises	This article emphasizes the role of projects and project management in mastering global strategic crises to create a new multi-project environment, comprised of projects, programs, and project portfolios. Multi-projectivity has come to characterize modern society and requires an adjustment of organizational solutions, individual competencies of different systems, and changes in understanding the effects of a project. The current global strategic crises are identified; some call for urgent, systemic and global solutions involving the implementation of projects with the awareness that the necessary and project-influenced resources are limited. The article examines the knowledge society in the context of global strategic crises and expands previous interpretations of project-oriented society, stressing its role in overcoming global strategic crises. By expanding and integrating the knowledge society and the project-oriented society, the a uthors propose the establishment of a holistic project-knowledge society that sets the framework for overcoming global strategic crises, thereby ensuring the longterm survival of humankind. The article concludes with a diagram of the process of overcoming global strategic crises through a holistic project-knowledge society.	hrv	Institut društvenih znanosti Ivo Pilar	2011	1.01	Društvena istraživanja	0.152	0.966
10944795	Suitability of maraging steel weld cladding for repair of die-casting tooling	A comprehensive study of 18% Ni maraging steel welds is done in order to determine the suitability of repair welding of aluminum die-casting dies and to prolong the in-service tool life. This study emphasizes the influence of welding parameters and post-welding precipitation annealing heat treatment on the welds&apos; mechanical and metallurgical properties. A series of U-groovedspecimens of 1.2344 tool steel is prepared. These grooves are filled with 1.6356 maraging steel as filler wire using multi-pass Gas Tungsten Arc welding. The metallurgical properties of the filler welds, in the as-welded condition and after precipitation annealing with a series of different parameters, are studied. The influence of preheat temperature, heat input during welding, and hot working of maraging steel welds is evaluated regardingmechanical and metallurgical properties. The response surface models for the prediction of mechanical properties (i.e. hardness, toughness, tensilestrength, and yield stress after post-welding heat treatment) are developed. The results show that metallurgical and mechanical properties significantly depend on welding technology and post-welding heat treatment parameters. Gas Tungsten Arc welding with low heat input permits the omission of solution heat treatment after welding, while hot working of welds during welding increases the mechanical properties. Developed models for the prediction of mechanical properties enable selection of precipitation annealing parameters for a particular application based on desired mechanical properties	deu	Hanser	2009	1.01	International journal of materials research	0.862	0.699
10945558	Residual dyebath purification using a system of constructed wetland	A constructed wetland model, comprising two different substrate mixtures, was used to purify textile dyebath wastewater. Three laboratory prepared wastewaters containing three commercial dyes of different classes and chemicalconstitution (one vat and two reactive dyes), different chemicals (NaOH, NaCl) and auxiliaries (migration inhibitor, sequestering, defoaming andwetting agents) were employed. Purifying efficiency was verified by measuring pollution parameters, such as absorbance, pH, total organic carbon (TOC), chemical oxygen demand (COD) and electrical conductivity (EC). It was found that the constructed wetland model reduced dye concentration by up to 70%, lowered the TOC and COD values up to 88%, electrical conductivity up to 60% and pH from 12 to 7.6.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Dyes and pigments	2.796	0.674
10946843	Tribological behavior of tungsten-doped DLC coating under oil lubrication	Diamond-like carbon (DLC) protective films have received considerable attention in recent years. Beside tools and dies, diamond-like and related coatings are starting to find application in some highly stressed mechanical components, including bearings and gears. Several different gear tests show anincrease in carrying load capacity or prolonged lifetime with tungsten carbide-doped DLC (W-DLC)-coated gears. The lubricants have been mostly commercially available gear oils that were primarily developed or tailored forferrous materials and are probably far from optimal for amorphous W-DLC layers. In the present work, the influence of lubricant chemistry on the friction and wear in W-DLC-coated contacts was investigated using a reciprocating test device. The first six test lubricants were conventional non-inhibited API/ATIEL base stocks followed by selected test blends in combination with different surface-active single additives. Experimental results in coated contact have shown that for friction reduction performance, additives are not necessary, while wear resistance is related with the chemistry of the lubricant. It may be concluded at this stage that different mechanisms of friction-induced interaction between lubricants and W-DLC-coatedlayers are possible.	gbr	Butterworth Scientific Limited	2009	1.01	Tribology international	1.690	0.969
10947099	Detection of cavitation in situ operation of kinetic pumps	Cavitation within a pump causes structural vibration with noise, among other by-products. Experiments have shown that there is a discrete frequency or broadband peak within the audible noise spectra, which is in strong correlation with the development of the cavitation process in the pump. Furthermore, the peak of the discrete frequency, or broadband peak, coincides with the net positive suction head (NPSH) critical value, which corresponds toa 3% drop in the total delivery head. Therefore, the discrete frequency tonecan be used to detect the incipience of cavitation and its development as well as to determine the NPSH required or critical value with in situ operation of a pump. In this study, we wanted to clarify the mechanism of noise generation, which is responsible for the discrete frequency component and on which cavitation has an important effect. For this purpose, three different measurement methods were used: the first is based on measurement of the sound pressure level (SPL) in the surrounding air, the second is based on measurement of the underwater acoustics and the third is based on measurement of the structural vibration. Experiments have shown that the characteristic discrete frequency tone, which is in close correlation with the cavitation process, is a result of structural vibrations (modes) or resonances caused by implosion of bubbles and bombardment of the inner surfaces of the pump.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2009	1.01	Applied acoustics	0.784	1.068
1094719	Ultrasound guided aspiration in pathological adnexal processes	Objective: To establish the efficiency of ultrasonographically guided transvaginal adnexal cyst aspiration as a treatment and diagnostic method. Study design: In 72 patients with an adnexal cystic mass, transvaginal ultrasound guided cyst aspiration was performed. Before the procedure, presence of primary malignant disease was excluded by gynecologic and ultrasound examination. Cyst content was sent for cytological analysis. Cytological findings were staged according to Papanicolaou. Patients were re-examined 3 and 6 months after the ultrasound intervention. Cysts measuring 3 cm or more in diameter were considered to be recurrence of the disease. Results: Recurrence of the disease appeared in 32 cases (44%) and was more common with larger cysts. Malignant cells were found in one case (1.5%), a recurrent ovarian cancer, previously treated by surgery and chemotherapy. Conclusion: In our study, ultrasound guided aspiration of adnexal cysts was not shown to be an efficient method of treatment because of the high recurrence rate. It may be used in selected patients at high anaesthesiologic risk for surgery as a therapeutic or a diagnostic procedure.	nld	Excerpta Medica	2002	1.01	European Journal of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Biology	0.854	1.357
1095015	Robustness of hollow clay masonry units and seismic behaviour of masonry walls	As a recent experimental investigations indicated, the robustness of masonry units is one among the most decisive parameters which define the behaviour of masonry walls when subjected to seismic loads. If local britte failure of units occurs, the mechanism of behaviour and known relationships between the strength and ductility proprties od masonry walls change. In such a case, the design values of load bearing and energy dissipation capacity of masonry walls are overestimated, although the equations and requirements specified in the codes have been taken into consideration. If brittle units are used for the construction of structural walls, the actual structure will be exposed to an increased level of seismic risk although it has been designed for earthquake loads according to codes. This is especially the case of reinforced masonry, where brittle local failure prevents the transfer of predicted forces from reinforcing steel to masonry units. In order to provide limitations for the use of hollow units with large hole volume ratio and thin shells amd webs in seismic areas, a measure to define the qualitstive term ""sufficient robustness"", specified in Eurocode 8, should be found.	gbr	Butterworth Scientific	2006	1.01	Construction & building materials	0.506	0.534
10952470	Modeling distributed real-time applications with specification PEARL	The methodology of hardware/software co-design of embedded control systems with Specification PEARL is presented. Hardware and software are modeled with the language Specification PEARL, which has its origins in standard Multiprocessor PEARL. Its usefulness is enhanced for modeling hierarchical and asymmetrical multiprocessor systems, and by additional parameters for schedulability analysis. Graphical symbols are introduced for its constructs to enable graphical modeling while maintaining the semantical background. It is meant to be a superlayer for programs, based on the PEARL programming model. To model program tasks, Timed State Transition Diagrams have been defined. The model of a co-designed system is verified for feasibility with co-simulation. The resulting information should be used when considering changes in a current design with the goal of producing a temporally feasible model. To support dynamic re-configurations, configuration management is introduced into the models. Since UML is becoming a de facto standard also for designing embedded control systems, and since Timed State Transition Diagrams and State Chart Diagrams share great similarity, an interface of the methodology to UML 2 is defined, using UML's extension mechanisms.	usa	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2007	1.01	Real-time systems	0.560	1.017
10953817	Graph colouring by maximal evidence edge adding	Graph colouring is one of the most studied NP-hard problems. Many problems of practical interest can be modelled as colouring problems. The basic colouring problem is to group items ai as few groups as posible, subject to the constraint that no incompatible items end up in the same group. Classical examples of applications include timetabling and scheduling. We describe an iterative heuristic algorithm for adding new edges to a graph in order to make the search for a colouring easier. The heuristic is used to decide which edges should be added by sampling a number of approximate colourings and adding edges which have fewest conflicts with the generated colourings. We perform some analysis of the number of approximate colourings that might be needed to give good bounds on the probability of including an edge which increases the chromatic number of the graph. Experimental results on a set of ""difficult graphs"" arising from scheduling problems are given.	gbr	Springer	2001	1.01	Lecture notes in computer science	0.415	0.634
10954267	A neural-network approach to describe the scatter of cyclic stress-strain curves	In order to predict a product's durability in the early phases of development it is necessary to know the stress-strain behaviour of the material, its resistance to fatigue and the loading states in the material. These parameters, however, tend to exhibit a considerable degree of uncertainty. Due to a lack of knowledge of the actual circumstances in which the product is used, during the early development phase, simulations based on statistical methods are used. The results of the experiments show that the cyclic stress-strain curves demonstrate not only a large amount of scatter, but also a dependence on the temperature, the size of the cross-section, the content of alloying elements, the loading rate, etc. This article presents a method for modelling cyclic stress-strain-curve scatter using a hybrid neural network for an arbitrary selection of the influencing factors. In an example of the measured data for a high pressure die-cast aluminium alloy it is clear that the suggested method is suitable for describing cyclic stress-strain curves. The main advantage of a hybrid neural network in comparison with a conventional method is the neural network's ability to precisely describe the influence of various factors, and their combinations, based on the form and scatter of the cyclic stress-strain-curve families. Defining the model parameters, i.e., training the neural network, is a procedure that does not require any additional user interventions; however, it enables us to gather knowledge that would otherwise require a lot of research. Thus, the trained neural network is a robust tool that can be used to predict cyclic stress-strain curves for random values of influencing factors. The capabilities of the presented method are only limited by the quantity of the measured data used for the neural-network training.	gbr	Scientific and Technical Press	2010	1.01	Materials and design	1.694	2.13
10954523	Analytical framework for analyzing the energy conversion efficiency of different hybrid electric vehicle topologies	Energy consumption and exhaust emissions of hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) strongly depend on the HEV topology, power ratios of the components and applied control strategy. There are many available patterns of combining the power flows to meet load requirements making it difficult to analyze and evaluate a newly designed HEV. In order to enhance design of HEVs, the paper provides a stand alone analytical framework for evaluating energy conversion phenomena of different HEV topologies. Analytical analysis is based on the energy balance equations and considers the complete energy path in the HEVs from the energy sources to the wheels and to other energy sinks. The analytical framework enables structuring large amount of data in physically meaningful energy flows and associated energy losses, and therefore provides insightful information for HEV optimization. It therefore enables identification of most suitable HEV topology and of most suitable power ratiosof the components, since it reveals and quantifies the instruments that could lead to improved energy conversion efficiency of particular HEV. The analytical framework is also applicable for correcting the energy consumption of the HEV to the value corresponding to balanced energy content of the electric storage devices.	gbr	Pergamon	2009	1.01	Energy Conversion and Management	1.944	1.269
10955035	The Stribeck curve and lubrication design for non-fully wetted surfaces	Tailoring the properties of tribological interfaces is difficult, but it can be a very efficient way to reduce wear and friction and so increase service life - providing it can be done successfully. However, when considering the interface properties it is necessary not only to take into account the solid-solid contacts, we also need to consider the solid-liquid interfaces, which can have a very significant impact on the micro- and macro-contacts, andwhich cannot be neglected. In this investigation we show that it is essential to consider the wetting, or slip, properties of the non-fully wettedsurfaces when designing the lubrication, and that this is also to a large extent predictable and relatively simple to implement. We discuss the differences between several types of contacts, using steel and DLC as model materials for fully wetted and non-fully wetted surfaces, respectively. We studied steel/steel, steel/DLC and DLC/DLC pairs, and we present the experimental evidence for how the Stribeck curve changes if one or two surfaces in the contact are non-fully wetted. Firstly, in the EHL regime the friction of non-fully wetted surfaces decreases significantly; in our case by around 15% and by more than 20%, respectively, while at minimum friction (the EHL > ML transition) the reduction in friction is lower, but still about 6%, and as high as 9%. Secondly, the film thickness of the non-fully wetted contacts is reduced, which causes a shift in the minimum friction (the Stribeck curve) to higher v/F values. This suggests a lower bearing capacity for these contacts and the potential danger of a transition in the lubricationregime and, as a result, increased wear. However, we have derived several ""ready-to-use"" diagrams that are generally valid for any oil and surface properties and which allow us to define the film thickness, the lambdaparameter and the regime transition for different wetting/slip properties. These diagrams can be used directly to improve the prediction and design of the lubrication quality and the regimes of the macro-scale contacts by employing a currently used, conventional methodology and equations. Moreover, based on the experimental results and the ""ready-to-use"" diagrams derived in this investigation for non-fully wetted contacts, the slip at the solid-liquid interface, i.e., the DLC-PAO oil, was estimated independently from the data of two Stribeck curves to be about 20%.	che	Elsevier	2009	1.01	Wear	1.771	0.969
10955291	High cycle thermo-mechanical fatigue	The stress-life approach is standardized and widely accepted for determining fatigue damage under stress-controlled high cycle fatigue (HCF) loading. It was first extended to non-isothermal cases by introducing an equivalent temperature approach (ETA). The paper presents its extension, that is, the damage operator approach (DOA), enabling online continuous damage calculation for isothermal and non-isothermal loading with mean stress correction. The cycle closure point, cycle equivalent temperature, threshold temperature and separate rainflow counting, obligatory for the ETA, are not necessary for the DOA any more. Both approaches are equivalent for the second and subsequent runs of block loading if temperature is constant. However, for non-isothermal cases the DOA is within the worst- and the best-case scenarios of the ETA. Theapproaches are compared with the simple stress history and several thermo-mechanical fatigue (TMF) cycle types.	gbr	Blackwell Publishing	2009	1.01	Fatigue & fracture of engineering materials & structures	0.835	0.969
10955353	A formula for the generalized Sato-Levine invariant	Let ?$W$? be the generalized Sato-Levine invariant, i.e. the unique Vassiliev invariant of order 3 for 2-component links, which is equal to zero for double torus knots of type ?$(1,k)$?. In this paper it is proved that ?$W = \beta - \frac{k^3-k}{6}$?, where ?$\beta$? is the invariant of order 3, which was proposed by Viro and Polyak as a representation of the Gauss diagram, and ?$k$? is the linking number.	gbr	American Mathematical Society	2001	1.01	Sbornik	0.096	0.48
10958620	TSLS estimation of stock market indices in southeastern European countries, as compared with world stock exchange centres in the financial crisis	We tested the hypothesis of procyclicality for economic activity and the stock exchanges of southeastern European countries relative to the main world Stock Exchange Centers via TSLS methodology in order to demonstrate the dependence of small financial markets on large ones and to investigate the spillover effect, i.e., the degree and pace of integration of 'new' financial markets into larger ones. Our estimates for the southeastern countries support the hypothesis of an increase in stock exchange indices in the period of transition, due to the opening of the market economy followed by large capital inflows. The observed countries that are already in the EU wing (Bulgaria, Romania and Slovenia) or those in the process of joining (Croatia and Montenegro) were found to be more dependent on the global financial markets and more exposed to adverse co-movements than other transitional southeastern countries (e.g. Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia).	rou	Centre of Economic Computation and Economic cybernetic	2011	1.01	Economic Computation and Economic Cybernetics Studies and Research	0.303	1.032
10958876	A comparative DCC-GARCH and rolling wavelet correlation analysis of interdependence between the Slovenian and European stock markets	This paper examines the comovement and spillover dynamics between returns of the Slovenian and some European (the UK, German, French, Austrian, Hungarian and the Czech) stock markets. It aims to answer these question: i) Is correlation (comovement) between the Slovenian and European stock markets time-varying and scale dependent; ii) What effect did financial crises in the period from April 1997 to May 2010 have on the comovement between the Slovenian and European stock markets; iii) Are there return and volatility spillovers between European and Slovenian stock markets; iv) Do DCC-GARCH and wavelet correlation correlation estimates differ and which one should international investor resort to when making international stock market investments? A DCC-GARCH and maximal overlap discrete wavelet transform analysis is applied to returns series of representative national stock indicesfor the period April 1997- May 2010. The main findings of the paper are: i) Comovement between Slovenian and European stock markets is time-varying; ii) There are significant return spillovers between the Slovenian and European stock markets; iii) Return spillovers are not just time-varying, but also scale dependent; iv) The global financial crisis of 2007-2008 has increased comovement between the Slovenian and European stock markets; v) As the scale (frequency) increases, we can observe larger discrepancies between DCC-GARCH and wavelet correlation estimates suggesting one should resort to rolling wavelet correlation estimates when making longer horizon international portfolio decisions.	rou	Centre of Economic Computation and Economic cybernetic	2011	1.01	Economic Computation and Economic Cybernetics Studies and Research	0.303	1.032
10960412	PPP in Central and Eastern European economies	The question of the validity of the Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) hypothesis in European transition countries remains relevant and empirically unsettled. This article aims to contribute to this debate by using an updated monthly database on real exchange rates for 12 Central and Eastern European economies. We implemented a range of panel unit root tests characterized by the rejection of the cross-sectional independence hypothesis and taking the US Dollar (USD) and the euro as numeraire currencies separately into account in the testing procedures. The results reported in this study provide additional evidence supporting the PPP proposition.	gbr	Chapman & Hall	2012	1.01	Applied economics letters	0.226	1.032
10960668	Policy support for the internationalization of small- and medium-sized enterprises	This paper introduces necessary key policy support guidance for the internationalization of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Slovenia. It is based on an examination of barriers to the internationalization of SMEs and an evaluation of policy support to SMEs in Slovenia. For this purpose the mean importance of the primary motives for entering foreign markets, the barriers and problems to entering and doing business at foreign markets, as well as the knowledge and expectations about governmental and non-governmental support services were measured in the first part of the empirical research. In the second part of the research, teh web portal of Slovenian Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment (PAEFI) was analysed with the intention to evaluate a website's contribution in complying with key PAEFI goals - primarily, providing support for SME activities.	ltu	Kaunas Faculty of Humanities, Vilnius University	2011	1.01	Transformations in business & economics	0.991	1.032
10962459	Influence of surface preparation on roughness parameters, friction and wear	The aim of the present research was to investigate influence of surface preparation on roughness parameters and correlation between roughness parameters and friction and wear. First the correlation between different surface preparation techniques and roughness parameters was investigated. For this purpose 100Cr6 steel plate samples were prepared in terms of different average surface roughness, using different grades of grinding, polishing, turning and milling. Different surface preparation techniques resulted in different Ra values from 0.02 to 7 m. After this, correlation between surfaceroughness parameters and friction and wear was investigated. For this reason dry and lubricated pin-on-disc tests, using different contact conditions, were carried out, where Al2O3 ball was used as counter-body. It was observed that parameters Rku, Rsk, Rpk and Rvk tend to have influence on coefficient of friction.	che	Elsevier	2009	1.01	Wear	1.771	0.969
10962715	Model of quality management of hard coatings on ceramic cutting tools	For the development and introduction of new coated cutting tools (i.e. new combinations of cutting materials and hard coatings), it is necessary to carryout a number of studies with the purpose of optimizing the coatings composition and processing procedures, and also to test new tools under working conditions. The aim of this paper is to establish a common model for environmentally oriented quality management in the use and development of coated ceramic cutting tools with new coating systems. The paper also presentsan investigation of the results of tribological and cutting propertiesof the coatings deposited with the PVD and CVD techniques on cuttinginserts made from (Al2O3 + TiC) tool ceramics. Tests were carried out on ceramic inserts, uncoated and PVD or CVD-coated, with gradient, mono-, multi- (nano) layers and multicomponent hard wear resistant coatings composed of TiN, Ti(C, N), (Ti, Al)N, (Ti, AlSi)N and Al2O3 layers.	nld	Elsevier	2009	1.01	Journal of materials processing technology	1.420	1.067
1096305	Synthesis of new lipophilic phosphonate and phosphonamidate analogues of N-acetylmuramyl-L-alanyl-D-isoglutamine related to LK 423	A syntheses of three new muramyl dipeptide (MDP) analogues related to LK 423 as potential immunomodulators are presented. The dipeptide part of the lead compound was modified by introducing a phossphoneamide isostere instead of theamide bond between L-alanine and D-glutamic acid (or D-isoglutamine), yielding new MDP analogues 5 and 9. Furthermore, the amide bond between L-Ala and D-Glu was replaced by a phosphonate isistere, giving peptidyl phoshonate 14. The scope and limitations of the synthetic strategies employed are discussed.	deu	Springer;Molecular Diversity Preservation International	2002	1.01	Molecules	0.408	1.795
10963734	Improving the economic and environmental performances of the beet sugar industry in Slovenia: increasing fuel efficiency and using by-products for ethanol	This paper investigates the possibilities of attaining zero-waste emissions inthe case of sugar production. The case-studied sugar plant located in Slovenia reflected a typical plant, using traditional sugar production from beet. An investigation of the possible use of waste and by-products from sugarprocessing was carried out, in order to approach zero-waste from beet sugar processing. The sugar production process was simulated and optimization was carried out concerning energy utilization. Consumption of energy in the chosen sugar plant was lowered by simultaneous optimization of the evaporationand crystallization process. Changing the fuel type used in the case-studied sugar plant (replacement of heavy fuel oil with natural gas) produced a significant decrease in air emission. Opportunities in the sugar industry have been discovered for adapting to new market conditions through the optimization of combined sugar-ethanol production. The two proposed options have been economically and environmentally evaluated and compared.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Journal of cleaner production	1.073	1.376
10964508	How good are the growth and inflation forecasts for Slovenia?	This paper examines the quality of the macroeconomic forecasts of six institutions that regularly publish forecasts for Slovenia. The analysis focuses on an evaluation of the quality of forecasts for the real and nominal growth of GDP and for the average annual inflation rate for the period from 1997 to 2009. The quality of forecasts for selected macroeconomic variables was evaluated based on five groups of criteria: statistical measures of accuracy, comparison with the results of naive models, trace test, sign test and statistical tests of the unbiasedness and efficiency of forecasts. The results of the analysis do not provide an ""absolute winner"", but they do indicate the features of particular forecasts. It is also clear that the developers of models have until now most likely given priority to reducing forecasting errors, while neglecting the congruence in the direction of trend between the forecast and the actual result. The latter criterion in particularis very important for effective economic policy making.	rou	Expert	2011	1.01	Romanian Journal of Economic Forecasting	0.246	1.032
10966361	A functional identity with an automorphism in semiprime rings	Let ?$\sigma$? be an automorphism of a semiprime ring ?$R$?, and let ?$f,g,h,k$? be maps from a set ?$S$? into ?$R$?. The identity ?$f(s)xg(t) = h(s)\sigma(x)k(t)$? for ?$s,t \in S$? and ?$x \in R$? is characterized. As an application, the form of ?$\sigma$?-biderivations on semiprime rings is determined.	chn	Institute of Mathematics, Chinese Academy of Sciences	2001	1.01	Algebra colloquium	0.188	0.48
10969366	On algebraic and geometric Kekulé structures in benzenoid rotagraphs	Recently introduced algebraic Kekulé structures (AKS) describe the ?$\pi$?-electron distribution within rings of a conjugated network. The ratio of the AKS countto the classical Kekulé structures count was studied in benzenoid rotagraphs. By considering three representative classes of such rotagraphs, it was shown that this ratio tends towards either 1 or 0, or its value lies between 0 and 1.	hrv	Hrvatsko kemijsko društvo	2006	1.01	Croatica chemica acta	0.778	2.094
10969878	Antioxidant and antimicrobial activity of rosemary extract in chicken frankfurters	The antioxidant and antimicrobial effects of commercially available oil-soluble rosemary extracts VivOX 20 and VivOX 4 were investigated against lipid oxidation and microbial growth in vacuum-packed chicken frankfurters. The content of the main active ingredient, carnosic acid, in extracts was 20% and 4% (w/w), respectively. For comparison, the activity of commercially available preservative Robin LI LS was also tested. The control was chicken frankfurters made without test additives. Antioxidant activity tests were performed at 3 storage temperatures (4, 12, 25 °C), using the Rancimat method.Antimicrobial effect was investigated by aerobic plate count. Results showed that both rosemary preparations possess antioxidant and antimicrobial properties that may make them useful in the food industry. In chicken frankfurters with added VivOX 20 and VivOX 4, higher oxidative stability was exhibited at all storage temperatures, as in frankfurters with Robin LI LS. Addition of VivOX 20, VivOX 4, and Robin LI LS also significantly reduced the aerobic plate count, compared to controls, stored at 4 or 12 °C.	usa	Institute of food technologists	2006	1.01	Journal of food science	1.004	1.025
1097065	Sensory electrical nerve stimulation for training dynamic balance responses in a chronic stroke patient	We propose a novel method for applying sensory electrical stimulation during perturbed stance in subjects with neurological impairment. The feasibility of this methodology was investigated in a case study with one chronic stroke patient. A dynamic standing frame was modified with electrical actuators which allow the application of unexpected perturbations to neurologically impaired people during standing, while protecting the subject from falling. The subject underwent two different periods of perturbation training, each lasting ten days. During the first period, the subject was perturbed in eight different directions. During the second period, the subject was also perturbed, but was assisted by sensory electrical stimulation of the soleus (SOL), tibialis anterior (TA), tensor fascia latae (TFL), and vastus muscles (VAS) in the impaired leg. After each period of training, an assessment was carried out to measure the forces the subject applied on the ground via two force plates and the EMG responses of the SOL, TA, TFL, and VAS muscles. The subject improved his ability to balance throughout the training, with the largest improvements occurring during the final period when sensory electrical stimulation was used. These observations verify the feasibility of the approach and suggest that sensory electrical stimulation may have a beneficial effect on balance training. Recommendations for further studies to verify the method in larger subject groups are given.	twn	Biomedical Engineering Society of ROC.	2011	1.01	Journal of medical and biological engineering	0.731	2.012
10970908	Charm-adjusted delta and delta gamma hedging	Hedging an option is easy in the basic Black-Scholes world. The only stochastic variable is the stock price, and by holding a short position in the stock equal to minus the partial derivative of the call price with respect to the stock, a momentarily riskless hedge of a call option is achieved. With no transactions costs or impediments to trading, the hedge can be rebalanced continuously through the entire life of the option. But delta hedging like this isn't possible in the real world, where it only makes sense to rebalance a hedge periodically, and the change in the delta as the stock price moves-theoption's gamma-becomes a source of unhedged risk. Delta-gamma hedges can manage both delta risk and the change in the delta, but volatility also changes over time, necessitating another Greek letter (or quasi-Greek in this case)-and vega was invented. As consideration extended to further higher-order derivatives, it put such a terrific strain on the Greek alphabet that an extension of the partial derivative naming convention was required. For example, ""charm"" is the derivative of delta with respect to time. And as this article shows, in an option hedge, charm becomes as important a risk factor as gamma close to maturity. The delta of an in-the-money (out-of-the-money) call converges rapidly to +1.0 (0.0) right at maturity, so a delta-hedged position can quickly become quite unhedged in the last few days. When charm is large, a more accurate hedge can be achieved using a modified hedge ratio, different from the standard delta.	usa	Institutional Investor, Inc.	2012	1.01	The Journal of derivatives	0.514	1.023
10971420	Beating the market in less developed financial exchange	The foundations of the efficient market hypothesis (EMH) are being tested in this article. We propose that using public information (consensus target price), one can develop a s strategy that will outperform the benchmark. The average of the target prices is compared to the security's current price in order to calculate the target-to-real-price (TRP) ratio. As the ratio is observed to be stationary, we build upon the feature and propose various ways to implement it into the trading strategy. We create clear and simple-to-implement rules which indicate whether the stock is over/undervalued. We simulate the value of the protfolio based on the buy/sellsignals. Backtesting is used in order to compare the return of the model to the benchmark. Results of the trading strategy are positive, as the model outperforms the passive portfolio by more that 50 %. The strategy is implemented on the emerging market securities, but we note that stationarity of the ratio has already been observed in the developed market, which indicates consistency of the results.	ukr	Nacional´na akademiâ upravlinnâ	2012	1.01	Aktual´ni problemi ekonomiki	0.039	1.032
10975004	Activity-based management of logistic costs in a manufacturing company	Both the transparent reporting of logistics costs and the related accounting of their cost drivers present a significant factor for the successful management of material flows and the related logistics activities in production companies. These costs, which are mainly reported as part of overhead (indirect) costs in such companies, usually remain hidden or are not explicitly visible when the traditional method of accounting is applied. The aim of this research is to create a model of activity-based accounting of logistics costs in a production company, and to test its efficiency in the disclosure of logistics costs compared with traditional cost accounting. The application of the model in a production company shows that an activity based approach discloses as much as 108% more logistics costs at the level of a group of products than the traditional cost accounting approach. Further, detailed information on logistics costs obtained in this way enables their more efficient management.	hrv	Fakultet prometnih znanosti;Fakulteta za pomorstvo in promet;Universita degli studi di Trieste, Istituto per lo studio dei transporti nell'integrazione economica europea;Fakultet za saobraèaj i komunikacije;Fakulta prevadzky a ekonomiky dopravy a spojov;Dopravni fakulta Jana Pernera	2012	1.01	Promet	0.177	1.148
10975772	A comparison of growing cell structures neural networks and linear scoring models in the retail credit environment	In this paper we address the primary problem of lenders: how to distinguish between low- and high-risk debtors prior to granting credit. We constructed two types of credit scoring models: one based on standard logistic regression and the other on growing cell structures (GCS), something which has never before been applied to this area of research. The credit scoring task was performed on the pooled data set from a new member country of the European Union and its Economic and Monetary Union. The proposed model outperformed the benchmarking (logit) model. The results also demonstrate that the GCS model has better capability of capturing nonlinear relationships among variables and can better handle the properties of categorical variables.	usa	M. E. Sharpe, Inc.	2011	1.01	Eastern European economics	0.333	1.032
10977814	The benchmarking of beet sugar plant - how to rate the environmental performance of a sugar plant against the sectors best	Despite many existing frameworks for the assessment of companies` sustainability, none of them specifically includes the benchmarking of beet sugar plants. This paper focusses on the performance assessment of traditional beet sugar plants, by considering the Best Available Techniques for beet sugar production, as determined by the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Directive. The main objective was to establish a model for the self-evaluation of environmental and technological performances by sugar plants, benchmarked by the achievements expressed in the Reference Documents on Best Available Techniques for sugar production. The effectiveness of the model was tested in the performance assessment of the case studied sugar plant producing beet sugar and other sugar-related products. Based on the results of this case study, the model was recognized as a promising one for comparing the environmental and technological performances of the sugar plant with the leading sustainability-driven sugar plants.	gbr	International Sugar Journal	2006	1.01	International Sugar Journal	0.094	1.025
1097864	Neurological symptoms in patients whose cerebrospinal fluid is culture- and/or polymerase chain reaction	We describe 13 patients with neurological signs and symptoms associated with Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection. M. pneumoniae was isolated from the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 9 patients: 5 with meningoencephalitis, 2 with meningitis, and 1 with cerebrovascular infarction. One patient had headache and difficulties with concentration and thinking for 1 month after the acute infection. M. pneumoniae was detetcted, by means of PCR, in the CSF of 4 patients with negative culture results. Two had epileptic seizures, 1 had blurred vision as a consequence of edema of the optic disk, and 1 had peripheral nerve neuropathy.	usa	The University of Chicago Press	2001	1.01	Clinical infectious diseases	3.545	2.483
10980635	An instrument for measuring abrasive water jet diameter	In order to improve the accuracy of abrasive water jet (AW) machining the precise value of the jet diameter has to be known. Because of an aggressive environment caused by high velocity abrasive grains, the diameter is not easily measured. That is why a measuring device consisting of a load cell and a wear resistant probe was developed. The device measures the force of the jet while it passes over the edge of the probe. If the feed rate of the jet is constant and the time needed for jet to pass is known, the diameter can be determined. Because of probe wear issue several preliminary tests were made with water jet only in order to determine the measuring uncertainty and accuracy of the device. In the end the measurement of the AWJ was performed for two different focusing nozzles of different diameters.	usa	Pergamon	2009	1.01	International journal of machine tools & manufacture	1.956	0.969
10980636	Gender specifics in entrepreneurs' personal characteristics	This paper explored Slovenian entrepreneurs' personal characteristics to understand the existing gender gap in transitional countries, testing the proposed model among small and medium-sized company owners (N = 201; 32.3% female, 67.7% male). The research operationalized entrepreneurs' characteristics according to psychological and non-psychological motivation factors; the former resulted in four types of Slovenian entrepreneurs while the latter was divided into human and social capital. Significant differences emerged among genders related to certain psychological motivation factors and social capital categories, but not human capital. Women remain an unexploited source of entrepreneurship; thus, Slovenia should establish effective mechanisms to promote female entrepreneurship.	deu	JEEMS;Rainer Hampp	2012	1.01	Journal for East European management studies	0.581	1.51
10980891	Modeling spatio-temporal field evolution	Prediction of spatio-temporal field evolution is based on the extraction of a physical law from joint experimental data. This extraction is usually described by a set of differential equations. If the only source of information is a field record, a method of field generators based on nonparametric modeling by conditional average can successfully replace differential equations. In this article we apply the method of field generators to a two-dimensional chaotic field record that describes the asynchronous motion of high-amplitude striations. We show how to choose the model structure in order to optimize the quality of the prediction process.	fra	EDP Sciences;Springer	2009	1.01	The European physical journal	1.466	2.673
10981147	Laser droplet welding of zinc coated steel sheets	The weldability of zinc coated steel sheets is often compromised by weld seam defects caused by rapid zinc vaporisation and burned-off zinc. Owing to this, welded seams usually remain unprotected from corrosion and are accompanied by undesirable porosity. In this paper, the laser droplet generation process and its application to laser droplet welding of zinc coated steel sheets are described. The influences of laser droplet generation and welding process control parameters on the properties of joints of zinc coated steel sheets are presented. Results show that laser droplet welding offers a promising technology for spot and continuous welding of zinc coated steel sheets in different joint configurations with good mechanical properties and corrosion resistance.	gbr	Institute of Materials	2009	1.01	Science and technology of welding and joining	1.327	0.699
10981404	Measurement scale for eco-component of hotel service quality	Growing acknowledgement of the need to achieve more sustainable forms of development has resulted in environmentally conscious tourists who have indicated a dissatisfaction with existing hotel service quality. The objective of this study was to investigate tourists' ecological expectations referring to the quality of spas and wellness hotel services in order to develop and test a scale for measuring the 'eco-component,' a new component of hotel service quality. The findings revealed four dimensions of the eco-component: hotel staff's eco-behaviour; environmentally friendly and healthy equipment; efficient use of energy and water; and bio-food. Tourists also demonstrated a hierarchy of eco-dimensions, with the most important being hotel staff's eco-behaviour and the least important being bio-food. Tourists' expectations about the level of eco-dimensions differ significantly with respect to their income, nationality, and the hotel certification. However, no significant difference emerged in their expectations due to different educational levels.	gbr	Pergamon Press	2012	1.01	International Journal of Hospitality Management	1.771	1.054
10983190	Reconfigurable digital controller for a buck converter based on FPGA	This paper presents a complete digitally controlled dc-dc buck converter performed by FPGA circuitry. All tasks, analog to digital conversion, control algorithm and pulse width modulation, were implemented in the FPGA. This approach enables high-speed dynamic response and programmability by the controller, without external passive components. In addition, the controller's structure can be easily changed with out external components. The applied algorithm enables a switching frequency of 100 kHz.	gbr	Pergamon	2007	1.01	Microelectronics and reliability	1.011	0.927
10996507	The use of noise and vibration signals for detecting cavitation in kinetic pumps	Cavitation in a kinetic pump reduces delivery head and efficiency of the pump.It also causes mechanical damage and an increase of vibrations and noise.Therefore, it is important to detect inception and development of a cavitation phenomenon in the pump. This article deals with signals of vibration and noise, which will be used for detection and monitoring of the cavitation in kinetic pumps, and also to prevent the effect of the cavitation in the pump and pumping system. When the cavitation is increasing, the flowing conditions are changing, which leads to an increase of vibrations of the pump and emitted noise in the surroundings. Because vibrations and noise are transferred from the pump through its casing, the signal is non-uniformly distorted due to transfer losses and structure of the casing surfaces. Noise and vibrations are increasing steadily, but in some specific frequency ranges the signal is more pronounced than in other parts of the spectrum. Experimental results have shown that vibration and noise in the audible spectrum can be successfully used for cavitation detection and its prevention.	gbr	Mechanical Engineering Publications	2009	1.01	Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers	0.416	0.969
10997019	High-speed energy efficient selective removal of large area copper layer by laser induced delamination	An indirect laser-induced method for selective removal of large copper areas from a printed circuit board is theoretically and experimentally investigated.The results show that the threshold condition for the process involves phase transition of the epoxy-based substrate resin. Optimal parameters for maximizing process speed are found and discussed.	nld	North-Holland	2009	1.01	Applied Surface Science	1.616	1.184
10998043	Structure and conditioning effect on mechanical behavior of poly(vinyl alcohol)/calcium lactate biocomposites	The structural and mechanical characteristics of polymeric biocomposites based on calcium lactate (CL) and either partially (88 mol%) or fully (98 mol%) hydrolyzed poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) were studied using optical microscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy equipped with attenuated total reflectance accessory, water content determination, and differential scanning calorimetry. In addition, the moisture absorption effect on the mechanical properties of the biocomposites was tested in this work. The results reveal that CL is a suitable modifier for both types of PVA. However, a more efficient enhancement of uniform shape and size distribution of CL particles within the PVA matrix was noticed in fully hydrolyzed matrix at low water contents. It is in agreement with glass transition temperature's observations. The samples conditioned at 50% of relative humidity (RH) showed decrease in E modulus and tensile strength in comparison with the material stored below 20% RH. Nevertheless, the enhancement of tensile properties, because of the modification with CL, was still noticeable especially for the partially hydrolyzed PVA-based biocomposites. The optimum concentration of themodifier was estimated on the basis of the obtained results.	usa	Society of Plastics Engineers	2009	1.01	Polymer composites	1.194	0.967
11002201	Configurations of cycles and the Apollonius problem	Given ?$n+1$? spheres and planes of dimension ?$n-1$? in ?$\RR^n$?, the Apollonius problem is to find a common tangent sphere or plane, and the generalized Apollonius problem is to find a sphere or plane intersecting them under prescribed angles. In Lie geometry, an Apollonius problem is given by an ?$n+1$?-frame of points on the Lie quadric ?$\Omega \subset P^{n+2}$?. The solutions are described as the intersections of the projective line determined by the orthogonal complement to this frame with respect to the Lie product in ?$\RR^{n+3}$? and the quadric. Two special points span this line, and the connection between the position of these two points and the existence of geometric properties of the solutions of the Apollonius problem are described.	usa	Rocky Mountain Mathematics Consortium.	2001	1.01	Rocky Mountain journal of mathematics	0.137	0.48
11002713	On the relatio between the nonconvexity of a set and the nonconvexity of its [epsilon]-neighborhoods	We associate to any closed subset ?$P$? of Banach space a real-valued function ?$\alpha_P$? which characterizes nonconvexity of the set ?$P$?. Inequalities of the type ?$\alpha_P(.) < 1$? guarantee us good topological properties of the set ?$P$?: contractibility, extendability, etc. In this paper we construct examples of sets, on which the functions of nonconvexity substantially differ when taken first, on the set and then, on the arbitrary small neighborhood of the set. On the other hand, we prove that in uniformly convex Banach spaces the conditions of the type ?$\alpha_P(.) < 1$? are stable on ?$\varepsilon$?-neighborhoods of the given set.	usa	Consultants Bureau	2001	1.01	Mathematical notes	0.157	0.48
11002907	Computer-assisted engineering determination of the formability limit for thin sheet metals by a modified Marciniak method	Development of a new sheet-metal-forming technology in a digital environment demands accurate and reliable mechanical properties and forming limits of the selected material. It is essential to determine the forming limits for thin sheets and foils. Implementation of the Marciniak procedure with strip-shaped specimens defining the left-hand side of the forming limit diagram (FLD) results in tearing outside the observed area of the specimen. Therefore, new shapes of test pieces were designed with a strip-shaped central area and enlarged outer areas, which were in contact with the die during the forming process. The radius of the specimen enlargement enabled a co-axial contact of its edge and direction of the material flow over the die radius during the forming process. The shape of the redesigned geometry of the specimen was analysed using the finite element (FE) program ABAQUS to minimize undesired stress concentrations at the die radius. Finally, strain paths variations due to shape change were analysed. The new specimen concept was verified on TS-275 tinplate steel with a thickness of 0.24?mm. By implementing the necessary redesigned specimen shapes and by analysis of the tearing limit of the TS-275 material, the forming limit curve for the tinplate material under investigation was constructed.	gbr	Mechanical Engineering Publications	2009	1.01	Journal of strain analysis for engineering design	0.748	1.009
11003163	Basic quality tools in continuous improvement process	If organizations wish to achieve continuous quality improvement they need to use appropriate selection of quality tools and techniques. In this paper a review of possibilities of the systematic use of seven basic quality tools (7QC tools) is presented. It is shown that 7QC tools can be used in all process phases, from the beginning of a product development up to management of a production process and delivery. It is further shown how to involve 7QC tools in some phases of continuous improvement process (PDCA-cycle), Six Sigma(DMAIC) and Design for Six Sigma (DMADV) methodologies, and Lean Six Sigma.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.02	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11007833	Proper holomorphic discs in C [sup] 2	In this paper ve investigate the global behavior of proper holomorphic maps ?$f: U \to \Cc^2$? from the unit disc ?$U = \{z \in \Cc:|z|<1\}$? to the complex plane ?$\Cc^2$?. We show that a real cone in ?$\Cc^2$? with axis ?$\RR^2$? contains the image ?$f(U)$? of some such map if and only if the angle of the cone is larger than ?$\pi/2$?. We construct proper holomorphic maps ?$f: U \to \Cc^2$? whose image avoids both coordinate axes. Furthermore we show that the components of such a map (as well as their polynomial and certain rational functions) have wild boundary behavior near each boundary point ?$U$?. In particular, the essential range of any such function at each boundary point of ?$U$? omits at most a polar set in ?$\Cc$?.	usa	International Press	2001	1.01	Mathematical research letters	0.632	0.48
11008795	Use of the kriging method in determining the properties of gases in large channels	Properties of fluids can vary significantly over a cross-section of a channel. The variations can be graphically presented by means of profiles which are typically based on a limited number of measured points. The article presents suitability of the kriging interpolation method for data analysis at measuring properties of fluids in large channels in various thermal and process plants. Using a practical example rather than complex statistical analyses the advantages of the kriging over other interpolation methods are presented. Several examples also give some guidelines on choosing number and distribution of measuring points to ensure accurate profiles.	fra	Ed. scientifique et medicales Elsevier;Elsevier	2009	1.01	International journal of thermal sciences	1.770	0.969
11009051	Numerical modelling of cavitation erosion	The goal of the work is to investigate the possibility of cavitation erosion prediction using computational fluid dynamics (CFD) tools only. For that purpose, a numerical process based on a coupling between CFD and an erosion model is presented and tested in several configurations of cavitating flow on a two-dimensional hydrofoil. The CFD code, which is based on the homogeneous approach, was previously validated on numerous experiments. In the present work, the predictions of velocity and pressure evolutions in the vicinity of the hydrofoil are compared with experimentally measured data. A close agreement is systematically obtained. The erosion model is based on the physical description of phenomena from cavitation cloud implosion, pressure wave emission and its attenuation, micro-jet formation and finally to the pit formation. The coupling between CFD and the erosion model is based on the use of local pressure, void fraction and velocity values to determine the magnitude of damage at a certain point. The results are compared with the experimentally measured damage on the hydrofoil. In the experiments a thin copper foil applied to the surface of the hydrofoil was used as an erosion sensor. A pit-count method was applied to evaluate the damage. The comparison shows that it is possible to use solely CFD tools to predict time evolution of cavitation erosion, including final extent and magnitude, with a very good accuracy.	gbr	Wiley	2009	1.01	International journal for numerical methods in fluids	0.936	1.201
11009307	Three-dimensional numerical simulation of the exhaust stroke of a single-cylinder four-stroke ICE	In this paper an extensive CFD simulation of the exhaust stroke of a single-cylinder fourstroke ICE, including the entire exhaust manifold is described. Guidelines for the implementation of the full threedimensional model of the discussed process are included. The simulation involves the time-dependent flow of exhaust gases through the exhaust valve and the flow dynamics within the 2.2-m-long, straight exhaust pipe during the period when the valve is closed. Also the intake port with the intake valve is being coupled during the valves' overlap period. The model geometry corresponds exactly to the actual engine geometry. The movement of the mesh follows the measured kinematics of the piston and the valves. The data obtained from the experimental environment was used for both the initialization and the validation of the computations. It was found that the phenomena affecting the dynamics of the exhaust flow are extremely three-dimensional and should be treated as such. In particular, the flow through the exhaust valve and the heat transfer along the exhaust pipe were influenced greatly by the effects of cold, fresh air breaking into the exhaust pipe in the period after the EVC. The presented study is the basis for future three-dimensional investigations of the entropy-generation rate along the exhaust system, including the exhaust valve.	deu	VDI-Verlag GmbH	2009	1.01	Forschung im Ingenieurwesen	0.391	0.918
11011355	Tool material behavior at elevated temperatures	In this article experimentally obtained data related to material mechanical properties, material behavior at elevated temperatures and numerical modeling of material creep responses are presented. Tensile tests at different elevated temperatures are carried out, and for some of these temperatures one-dimensional short time creep tests for different constant stresses are made. Before presented experimental investigations the used materials were not treated. The curves representing specimen strain elongation are also presented. The materials under consideration are 56NiCrMoV7 (1.2714) and X153CrMoV12 (1.2379).	usa	Marcel Dekker	2009	1.01	Materials and manufacturing processes	0.968	1.067
11011868	Comovement dynamics between Central and Eastern European and developed European stock markets during European integration and amid financial crises -a wavelet analysis	Stock market comovements between developed (represented in the article by markets of Austria, France, Germany, and the UK) and developing stock markets (represented here by three Central and Eastern European (CEE) markets of Slovenia, the Czech Republic, and Hungary) are of great importance for the financial decisions of international investors. From the point of view of portfolio diversification, short-term investors are more interested in the comovements of stock returns at higher frequencies (short-term movements), while long-term investors focus on lower frequencies comovements. As such, onehas to resort to a time-frequency domain analysis to obtain insight about comovements at the particular time-frequency (scale) level. The empirical literature on the CEE and developed stock markets interdependence predominantly apply simple (Pearsons) correlation analysis, Granger causality tests, cointegration analysis, and GARCH modeling. None of the existent empirical studies examine time-scale comovements between CEE and developed stock market returns. By applying a maximal overlap discrete wavelet transform correlation estimator and a running correlation technique, we investigated the dynamics of stock market return comovements between individual Central and Eastern European countries and developed European stock markets in the period from 1997-2010. By analyzing the time-varying dynamics of stock market comovements on a scale-by-scale basis, we also examined how major events (financial crises in the investigated time period and entrance to the European Union) affected the comovement of CEE stock markets with developed European stock markets. The results of the unconditional correlation analysis show that the developed European stock markets of France, the UK, Germany and Austria were more interdependent in the observed period than the CEEs stock markets. The later group of countries exhibited a lower degree of comovement between themselves as well as with the developed European stock markets during all the observed time period. The Slovenian stock market was the least correlated with other stock markets. By using the rolling wavelet correlation technique, we wanted to answer the question as to how the correlation between CEE and developed stock markets changed over the observed period. In particular, we wanted to examine whether major economic (financial) and political events in the world and European economies (the Russian financial crisis, the dot-com financial crisis, the attack on the WTC, the CEE countries joining the European union, and the recent global financial crisis) have influenced the dynamics of CEE stock market comovements with developed European stock markets. The results show that stock market return comovements between CEE and developed European stock markets varied over time scales and time. At all scales and during the entire observed time period the Hungarian and Czech stock markets were more interconnected to developed European stock markets than the Slovenian stock market was. The highest comovement between the investigated CEE and developed European stock market returns was normally observed at the highest scales (scale 5, corresponding to stock market return dynamics over 32-64 days, and scale 6, corresponding to stock market return dynamics over 32-64 and 64-128 days). At all scales the Hungarian and Czech stock markets were more connected to developed European stock markets than the Slovenian stock market. We found that European integration lead to increased comovement between CEE and developed stock markets, while the financial crises in the observed periodled only to short-term increases in stock market return comovements.	ltu	Technologija.	2012	1.01	Inžinerin¹e ekonomika	1.468	1.032
11012124	Comovement between Central and Eastern European and Developed European Stock Markets	Stock market comovements between stock markets is of great importance for the financial decisions of international investors. By applying a maximal overlap discrete wavelet transform correlation estimator, we investigated the level and dynamics of stock market return comovements between three Central and Eastern European stock markets (Slovenian, Hungarian and the Czech) and four developed European stock market (Austria, France, Germany and the United Kingdom). We found that stock market return comovements between CEE and developed European stock markets vary over time scales and time. The highest comovement between the stock market returns is normally achieved at the highest scales (scales 5 and 6). At all scales, Hungarian and the Czech stock market are more connected to developed European stock markets than Slovenian stock market.	ukr	Nacional´na akademiâ upravlinnâ	2012	1.01	Aktual´ni problemi ekonomiki	0.039	1.032
11020827	Quantification of flow kinematics using computer-aided visualization	The paper presents a study of the ability of the visualization methods to measure velocity field in the fluid flow from the concentration field of a passive tracer that is introduced to the fluid. The method is based on the advection diffusion equation. A sequence of successive flow images was processed to obtain the required unknown terms. Concentration of the passive tracer was acquired through greyscale intensity on images at chosen measurement points. Standard numerical procedures were applied to obtain spatial- and time derivatives of the passive tracer concentration. The method was tested in an experiment with an air jet flowing out of a pipe, where the velocity field in a jet was measured with a hotwire anemometer. Comparison of the results of both methods shows good agreement, albeit with certain deviations that are a consequence of simplified approach of the visualization method. The results prove the suitability of the visualization method for quantitative measurements of flow kinematics. Further studies and improvement sof the method could provide a simple and relatively cheap yet reliable tool not only for preliminary assessment of the flow velocity field, but also for velocity measurements in complex flow structures.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11021078	Higher dimensional dodecahedra as models of the macro and micro universe in E-infinity Cantorian space-time	In this work we present a summary about Platonic solids, specially about different dodecahedra. Kepler's Conjecture and the Dodecahedral Conjecture are of a great importance in circle searching, specially in the Poincaré dodecahedron space as a cosmological model. Some properties of the 120-cell Coxeter polytop are presented. E-infinity Cantorian space-time may be regarded as a fuzzy version of a hyperbolic manifold based on the 120-cell Coxeter polytop. The topology of fuzzy 4-dimensional polytops are used to give information about the number of the elementary particles in the standard model of high energy physics.	nld	Pergamon	2007	1.01	Chaos, solitons and fractals	3.025	0.979
11021083	Sound emitted at boundary layer during steel quenching	Quenching and tempering often represents the final stage in the manufacturing process of machine parts. The choice of optimum parameters of a quenching process and monitoring of the process itself ensures the achievement of the specified hardness and residual stress in the surface layer of the machine component. A hardening process can be controlled by selecting different quenching parameters (quenching media, its temperature, specimen temperature, .). In order to control the hardening process, one should be able to monitor the quenching process in real time. This paper treats an experimental setup comprising detection of sound emission and some of the results obtained during the quenching process. Due to the heat transfer from the specimen to the quenching medium, film boiling and nucleate boiling occur around the heated object, which strongly affects quenching. Bubble formation, their development and implosions, and disappearing around the surface causes sound emission whose intensity depends on the intensity of the bubbles' oscillation and the speed of their disappearing, i.e. on the quenching process. Sound-pressure signals demonstrated by different amplitudes depending on time, at different frequencies, are shown in 3D diagrams. It was established that an analysis of sound emission signals can provide useful information that confirms the differences occurring in quenching with different quenching media and under different quenching conditions. Analyses of sound emission demonstrated that sound emission during quenching process can be used for monitoring the hardening process. Analysis of the quenching results and sound emission signals during the process itself confirm the applicability of the new approach to the controlling of steel quenching.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11021334	E-infinity Cantorian space-time from subfactors and knot theory	First we give some definitions and theorems about subfactors and Jones' index. Subsequently the connection between Jonesæ index and the geometry of four manifolds is outlined. It is shown that the braid relation can be satisfied only when the parameters ?$\taut$? and ?$q \in \{e^\frac{2\pi}{n}, n=3,4,...\} \cup (0,\infty)$? are related by Jones' equation ?$\tau^{-1} = q + q^{-1} + 2$?. The invariant ?$V_L$? of oriented links is shown to describe knots in E-infinity Cantorian space-time. In other words E-infinity may be constructed using the mathematics of subfactors and knot theory.	nld	Pergamon	2007	1.01	Chaos, solitons and fractals	3.025	0.979
11022169	Flexibility of polyhedral embeddings of graphs in surfaces	Whitney's theorem states that 3-connected planar graphs admit essentially unique embeddings in the plane. We generalize this result to embeddings of graphs in arbitrary surface by showing that there is a function ?$\xi: \NN_0 \to \NN_0$? such that every 3-connected graph admits at most ?$\xi(g)$? combinatorially distinct embeddings of face-width ?$\ge 3$? into surface whose Euler genus is at most ?$g$?.	usa	Academic Press	2001	1.01	Journal of combinatorial theory	0.514	0.48
11024918	Different measures of sensitivity of recipe colour to random and proportional dye concentration error	The essential question of the paper ""Can the predicted sensitivity to random and/or proportional dye concentration errors assist in selecting the most repeatable recipes?"" was investigated using the laboratory dyeing of acrylic fabric with basic dyes. When the dye strength errors were not involved, the biggest scattering of the recipe colour in repeated dyeings was observed in the cases of light neutral target colours, where the predicted sensitivity to random concentration errors was the highest. For a few low-saturated targets, eight recipes with different predicted sensitivities to random errors were treated. In six cases out of the seven treated, those recipes less sensitive to random concentration errors generally performed better than the more sensitive ones, but the correlation was rather weak. For those cases whenthe dye strength errors were included, experiments were also carried out with several different recipes for a neutral medium-lightness target colour.	gbr	Blackwell	2007	1.01	Coloration technology	0.650	0.674
11025430	Functional properties of wires and thin ribbons of several shape memory alloys	NiTi, NiTiW and CuAlNi samples with variations of the microstructure in each alloy have been trained in order to induce two-way effects which would be interesting for technical applications. The effects immediately after training are the higher the lower the strength of specimen is. Therefore, the highest values of ?$s_2w$? (about 3%) have been achieved in annealed NiTi samples. Most possible technical applications, however, would need long-term stability of the TWSME. In this case we get an opposite influnce of the microstuctural features and the strength of the material: softer material can be trained easily to higher effect size, but the stability is weak. On the other hand, samples of higher strength are harder to train, exibit smaller TWSME values, but prove to be relatively stable against functional fatigue (NiTiW and CuAlNi alloys). In addition, thin ribbons from CuAlNi were produced successfully by melt spinning. Al ribbons exhibited a shape memory effect immediately after melt-spinning. The microstructure at room temperature is martensitic, but the grains are unexpectedly coarse, therefore only very low ductility was achieved. Subsequent cold-rolling improved the mechanical properties, but not to an extent as would be required of shape memory componets. Adding boron to the alloy allowed to produce a finer microstructure while obtaining more ductile ribbons. The training of thin ribbons, investigation and optimization of size and stability of the two-way effect will be performed in the near future.	usa	Wiley-VCH	2006	1.01	Advanced engineering materials	1.402	1.659
11027227	Surface texturing by pulsed Nd:YAG laser	Introducing specific textures on a tribological surface can contribute to friction reduction in sliding contacts. In the present paper, a pulsed Nd:YAG laser emitting at 1064 nm, was used against 100Cr6 steel samples in order to produce well-defined surface micro-pores, which can act as lubricant reservoirs, micro-hydrodynamic bearings as well as traps for wear debris. Due to the high flexibility of the laser system, structural features such as shape, size, density and depth can be varied easily by changing the laser parameters. To optimize the parameters of the laser surface texturing process, an investigation was performed using different pulse numbers, various pulse energies and two different modes (single- and multi-mode). The microtextures were characterized with optical microscopy, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and by topography techniques. The relationship between the laser processing parameters and qualitative and quantitative profile of the micro-pores was studied. Tribological testing of laser textured surfaces was performed in a low frequency-long displacement reciprocating sliding wear tester under boundary lubrication and results compared to un-textured case. Tribological comparison of textured, textured and lapped, and untextured surfaces shows only minimal influence of texturing for contact conditions investigated.	gbr	Elsevier	2009	1.01	Tribology international	1.690	0.969
11029019	An anchored discrete convolution algorithm for measuring length in digital images	A new algorithm called an anchored discrete convolution has been developed. The method enables the determination of the length of objects in digital images from their detected contour. The algorithm is based on discrete convolution by using different convolution masks and points anchored within the pixels. The anchoring prevents the point shifting in the pixel during the calculation and contributes to smoothing capabilities of the algorithm on the measured data. In this paper a Gaussian convolution mask is used on the experimental curves to evaluate the presented algorithm as a measuring tool.	gbr	Elsevier	2009	1.01	Measurement	0.761	0.918
11029275	Quadrature phase-shift error analysis using a homodyne laser interferometer	The influence of quadrature phase shift on the measured displacemnet error was experimentally investigated using a two-detector polarizing homodyne laser interferometer with a quadrature detection system. Common nonlinearities, including the phase-shift error, were determined and effectively corrected by a roboust data-processing algorithm. The measured phase-shift error perfectly agress with the theoretically determined phase-shift error region. This error is systematic, periodic and severely asymmetrical around the nominal displacement value. The main results presented in this paper can also be used to assess and correct the detector errors of other interferometric and non-interferometric displacement-measuring devices based on phase-quadrature detection.	usa	Optical Society of America	2009	1.01	Optics express	3.278	1.506
11036950	MINLP synthesis of reactor networks in overall process schemes based on a concept of time-dependent economic regions	The design and optimization of reactor networks using the conventional conceptof attainable region is based on technological (conversion, selectivity, etc.), rather than, economical criteria (cost, profit, etc.). The solution from the economical point of view when the operating and investment costs cannot be neglected may not be optimal, not even in regard to the structure. In order to circumvent this deficiency, the conventional Concentration Attainable Region (CAR) is transformed into an Economic Region (ER) using economic optimization criteria. A novel concept for ER constructionis proposed for multi-D problems. One-parametric NLP or MINLP optimizations with reactor volume as a varying parameter are performed to construct trajectories in the ER. In this way the ER is aided by mathematical programming for 3D or more D problems in order to handle dimensions higher than 2 as degrees of freedom for the economic objective function. ER is attainable (EAR) only when the economic objective function is linear. The more the objective function is discontinuous, discrete, nonlinear and non-convex and the more its cost coefficients vary with time, the less the principles of AR can be applied to ER. However, economically optimal reactor systems always lie at the borders of ERs. Two important insights have been gained during the construction of different time-dependent ERs, which have been used in upgrading the MINLP approach to the synthesis of reactor networks in overall process schemes: (i) A reactor network superstructure has been reestablished based on economical optimization criteria and the principles of ER. (ii) Over a longer period, the performing of a stochastic multi-period MINLP synthesis is recommended, in order to consider the time variability and uncertainties of economic parameters. A special multi-period strategy is proposed to upgrade the efficiency of the MINLP synthesis.	gbr	Pergamon Press.	2007	1.01	Computers & Chemical Engineering	1.238	1.015
11043099	Synthesis of elementary product concepts based on knowledge twisting	Knowledge twisting is defined as a kind of manipulation of Physics P/Structure S/Design D (as mental objects) in order to achieve various Function(s) F. This paper presents a method in which prior synthesis of functional structure-with which the functioning of a future product would need to be described neutrally with respect to components-is not required for product concept. Empirical analysis has shown that the use of this method does not lead to a combinatorial explosion. The method is based on the chaining of physical laws and complementary basic schemata.	usa	Springer	2010	1.01	Research in engineering design	1.250	0.826
11043355	Uniform power transmission gears	A new type of lubricated gears is presented in this paper, referred to as Uniform Power Transmission Gears (UPTG), which have conformal shaped teeth flanks that enable a more uniform transmission of power and motion. The proposed teeth flanks comprise three arcs: an addendum arc, a dedendum arc, with both of these joined by a connecting arc. These UPT gears have been derived from Hawkinsæ patented Zero Sliding Gears (YSG) [4]. The name Uniform Power Transmission Gears derives from the fact that these gears operate during power transmission with an almost constant value of friction and a nearly constant value of power transmission. Thus, the power transmission of the UPT gears occurs simultaneously with the doublecontact teeth flanks of the driving and driven gears, which means the transmitted power is divided into two parts: the contact pressure in the contacts is lower, and the gear pair conjugates as helical gears. UPT gears can be produced on common gear cutting machines based on a rolling process where teeth shapes are formed by successive enveloping cuts of a cutter. However, the cutter teeth should be manufactured by the UPT rack profile. A comparison of the UPTGs with involute-type gears is presented. The radii of curvature are investigated in detail and the velocities in the teeth flank contacts were analyzed. Additionally, an investigation of oil-film thickness using the theory of Hamrock and Dowson is discussed. Owing to the decisive influence of heat caused by friction on gearsæ scuffing resistance, and the heating of the teeth flanks based on Blokæs flash-temperature criterion, we have made a careful study and the results are presented. Because the power transmission with UPTGs occurs mostly by rolling, with only a minor amount by sliding, such gears are verz suitable for heavy-duty power transmission at relatively slow speed working conditions.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11043606	The effect of adsorbed carboxymethyl cellulose on the cotton fibre adsorption capacity for surfactant	The research reported in this paper demonstrates that the capacity of cotton fibres to adsorb cationic surfactants as well as the rate of the adsorption process can be increased by adsorbing carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) onto the fibre surfaces. In addition, the adsorption can be restricted to the fibre surface. CMC was deposited by means of adsorption from an aqueous solution. The adsorption of N-cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC) from an aqueous solution onto the CMC-modified fibres was measured using UV-spectrometric determination of the surfactant concentration in the solution. Adsorption onto the cotton fibres was studied in a weakly basic environment (pH 8.5) where cotton fibres are negatively charged and the CPC ion is positively charged. Modification of the fibres by adsorption of CMC introduces new carboxyl groupsonto the fibre surfaces, thereby increasing the adsorption capacity of the fibres for CPC. The initial rate of adsorption of CPC increased proportionally with the amount of chargeè however, this rate slowed down at high degrees of coverage on fibres with a high charge. The adsorption of cationic surfactant to the anionic surface groups was stoichiometric, with no indication of multilayer or admicelle formation. It was evident that the acidic group content of the fibres was the primary factor determining cationic surfactant adsorption to these fibres.	nld	Chapman & Hall;Kluwer Academic Publishers	2006	1.01	Cellulose	1.539	0.513
11044441	Automatic continuity of homomorphisms into normed quadratic algebras	Let ?$B$? be a real or complex complete normed quadratic algebra. All homomorphism from arbitrary (possibly non associative) complete normed algebra into ?$R$? is continuous if and only if ?$B$? has no non-zero element with zero square.	hun	Kossuth Lajos Tudományegyetem	2001	1.01	Publicationes mathematicae	0.139	0.48
11048219	Genetic algorithm in material model parameters' identification for low-cycle fatigue	The material model presented in this paper describes elasto-plastic behaviour of the material under a cyclic load application. It takes into account damage occurrence and accumulation in the material and its relation to isotropic and kinematic hardening or softening. The material constitutive model for description of low-cycle fatigue behaviour is highly non-linear and therefore its parameter identification requires complex numerical procedure, such as genetic algorithm (GA). Because of its complexity, the unique genetic operatorsæ routines in GA calculation procedure are developed to make possible fast and reliable convergence to the results. These routines are incorporated in developed software solution. The calculation resulted in identification of material parameters that are validated in comparing material response of numerical solution with experimental data.	nld	Elsevier	2009	1.01	Computational materials science	1.522	2.034
11049238	Influence of magnetic field on the aragonite precipitation	Many laboratory investigations of magnetic water treatment (MWT) for scale control explained the formation of less compact scales by raised portion of aragonite, which is needle-like and less adhesive than rhombohedral calcite crystals, while our experiment was conducted with tap water, which contains Mg+2 and Fe+2 ions in concentrations exceeding thresholds for calcite inhibition, common for major tap waters. MWT efficiency was evaluated by amounts of scale precipitated in boilers and pipes during three-weeks run of two parallel experimental lines-one with and another without magnetic treatment. All scales were identified by X-ray diffractometer to be aragonite,but in the case of magnetic treatment, scales occurred in much smaller amounts: the scale on heating copper-pipe spiral was 2.5-times thinnerdue to MWT and in zinc-coated steel pipe occurred as very thin powder-like coating, while in the line without the treatment abundant hard lining was formed. The scalesæ morphology was observed by scanning electron microscope: the husks from both lines consisted of parallel distributed needles, but these crystals were about four times thinner in the case of MWT. The present work demonstrates that hard scale deposits can form even under conditions where aragonite precipitates predominantly, and that MWT can also affect the crystallization of this polymorph in a manner conducive to scaling control.	nld	Pergamon Press	2007	1.01	Chemical Engineering Science	1.775	1.015
11052566	Qualitative and quantitative analysis and comparison of Java distributed architectures	In this article we have undertaken a qualitative and quantitative comparison of common approaches used to develop distributed solutions in Java: RMI and Web services for regular unsecured communication, RMI-SSL and WS-Security for secure communication and authentication, and HTTP-to-port and HTTP-to-CGI/servlet tunnelling for RMI communication through firewalls and proxies. We have performed a functional comparison that helps with the selection of the most appropriate approach. We have also carried out a detailed performance analysis with the identification of major bottlenecks, identification of design and implementation guidelines for distributed applications, and specification of optimizations for distributed middleware. This article contributes to the understanding of different approaches for developing Java distributed applications, provides detailed performance analysis, presents design and implementation guidelines, and identifies the major performance overheads.	gbr	Wiley Interscience	2006	1.01	Software	0.543	0.937
1105265	Quantification of the MR images of hydrogels by NMR relaxation measurements	Layers of hydrogel represent a diffusional barrier that retards the process ofdrug release. For better prediction of drug release, a method for evaluatingthe polymer concentration profile was developed	pol	Polish Society for Cell Biology and University of Wroclaw	2002	1.01	Cellular & molecular biology letters	0.651	3.172
11054875	Spatial-mode-shape-identification using a continuous wavelet transform	This paper presents an experimental modal analysis of a damped multi-degree-of-freedom mechanical system using a continuous wavelet transform. An approximation of the wavelet transform of the impulse response function is deduced, which serves as a basis for the extraction of the natural frequencies, the damping ratios and the mode shapes. Due to an approximation with a finite Taylor series, a computational error in the identified oscillatory amplitude occurs and is observed for the simulated system response. The presented approach of modal identification is applied to real mechanical systems, such as a steel beam and the horizontal tail of an ultralight aircraft. Using the proposed measurement methodology, it is possible to reconstruct the spatial mode shapes of any dynamic linear system with an arbitrary geometry.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11055131	Magnetic cooling - development of magnetic refrigerator	The paper describes the development and design of a prototype rotary magnetic refrigerator (MR). The principle of the operation of the presented magnetic refrigerator is based on the rotary movement of active magnetic regenerators (AMRs) with magnetocaloric materials and on the stationary magnetic field generated by permanent magnets NdFeB. After a short description of the basics of magnetic refrigeration, this paper presents the development and analysis of the structure for generating the magnetic field and the basic operational principle of the first prototype magnetic refrigerator, which was developed at the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering. The second part of the paper provides a description of the development process for certain key elements of the complete magnetic refrigeration system.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11055382	The effect of platinum catalyst on decomposition of ozone and atrazine removal	Advanced oxidation processes including ozone are known for their atrazine decomposition in drinking water. However, ozonization is a slow process and is not efficient in the removal of atrazine from drinking water. Better results were achieved at alkaline pH. The aim of our work was to degrade atrazine by ozonization of drinking water using Pt-catalyst and to compare the results with other ozonization processes. Up to 93% of atrazine removal was achieved by applying Pt-catalyst, especially in pH range around 7. The concentrations of some metabolites were observed during the ozonization. Deethylatrazine did not decompose at different reaction conditions. It was established that the efficiency of atrazine removal depends on the concentration of inorganic carbon in drinking water.	gbr	STI, Science & Technology Integration.	2007	1.01	Journal of advanced oxidation technologies	0.712	2.506
11055387	Phenomenological sedimentation model for an industrial circular settling tank	The paper presents a study of the influence of integral parameters of an industrial settling tank on the process of sedimentation. An organic water suspension was used in the experiment where the impact of the suspension age on sedimentation was determined experimentally and by computer-aided visualization. Measurements of the inlet- and outlet suspension concentration, the difference in the level of suspension between the reservoir and settling tank as well as the suspension volume flow rate were carried out on a newly developed continuous sedimentation tank. The results of the measurements served as the basis for a phenomenological multi-regression model that was developed to determine the functional dependence of the ratio between inlet- and outlet suspension concentration on the independent parameters of the process. According to the obtained results of the model, the most influential parameters of the sedimentation process are the inlet concentration and the mass flow of the suspension.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11055643	The influence of some parameters on the flow properties of bulk solids	Numerous studies in the past attempted to characterize bulk solids. However, some characteristics of bulk solids still remain insufficiently understood. This paper presents some interesting results about the influence of the particle size distribution and moisture content on the unconfined yield strength of bulk solids. Since characterization of bulk solids goes beyond determining the above mentioned properties, a novel attritor which was designed and used in our laboratory as a significant part of a new method for determining the influence of particle shape on the unconfined yield strength of a bulk solid, is presented.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11055894	Uncertainty of nitrate and sulphate measured by ion chromatography in wastewater samples	This paper presents an evaluation of measurement uncertainty regarding the results of anion (nitrate and sulphate) concentrations in wastewater. Anions were determined by ion chromatography (EN ISO 10304-2, 1996). The major sources of uncertainty regarding the measurement results were identified as contributions to linear least-square or weighted regression lines, precision, trueness, storage conditions, and sampling. Determination of anions in wastewater is very important for the purification procedure, especially the amount of nitrate in waste and potable waters. The determined expanded uncertainty was 6% for nitrate anions and 8.3% for sulphate anions. The difference between measurement uncertainties determined by the two methods, the weighted and linear least-square methods is negligible.	pol	Central European Science Journals.	2007	1.01	Central European Journal of Chemistry	0.754	2.086
11058454	Transmission of images over general packet radio services using advanced wavelet image codecs and digital signal processor chips	We develop a wavelet-based Godec using a low-cost and low-energy-consuming 16-bit fixed-point digital signal processor (OSP). The target application is designed to grab an image from a camera, Gode the image using a wavelet-based Godec, and send a coded file over a wireless global system for mobile communications/ general packet radio services (GSM/GPRS) network. Since the channel capacity of the GSM/GPRS network is limited, a OSP with a relatively low computational power is sufficient to implement an image codec. A trade-off is made between the complexity and the efficiency of the wavelet-based image coder. Any implementation issues conce ming the wavelet transform and entropy coding are discussed. Lifting schemes for a 9-7 and a 5-3 filter bank are used. The novel ordering of bit-plane bits is presented. The proposed co-dec is comparable with a JPEG2000 Godec in the rate-distortion sense. The experimental results show that the implementation of JPEG 2000 on the presented platform runs 60% slower than the proposed codec. The coded file is transmitted over a wireless net-work using Internet protocol/user datagram protocol/trivial file transfer protocol (IP/UDP/TFTP).	gbr	SPIE-International Society for Optical Engineering;IS&T-Society for Imaging Science and Technology	2006	1.01	Journal of electronic imaging	0.801	0.942
11058715	Function and functionality in the conceptual design process	In order to contribute to functional modeling of product based on the functional synthesis paradigm, the work sets out to present criteria for the product functions and functionalities' definition. The product function matrix and their requests model has been generated that interrelates functions and technical systems. Functions are described in terms of parameters defined from physical laws. Through winning parameters correlation elements in the product function matrix and their requests are defined that interrelate functions and the technical systems which solve them. Winning parameters are derived from a set of parameters for each function thus they are of major importance and have the strongest impact on a given function. By the application of the product function matrix and their requests in the conceptual design process the designer can reexamine his or her work through comparison of the possibilities of realization of new ideas based on previously made products.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11058971	Particularities of an incremental forming application in multi-layer construction elements	The technologies for low quantity production of sheet metal components and parts have expanded greatly in recent years. They are applied mostly for thin single metal sheets. However, such technologies could also be interesting to form individual multi-layer construction elements. As such construction elements consists of metal plates that are usually hot zinced and painted before forming process, it is necessary to select an appropriate technology with stable process parameters to avoid any damages. In this article, particularities of an incremental forming application as additional technology in multi-layer construction element production are presented. Special attention is dedicated to the forming principles, the forming influences on the mechanical properties of the multi layer element and the corrosion of the locally deformed coloured metal plate. The latter two activities represent the most important requirements in order to fulfil construction standards and due dates, both independently of unpredictable sharp weather conditions. It was discovered that the statics of the multi-layer element improves if appropriate shape parameters in connection with process parameters are applied, where the painted layer remains undamaged, even after demanding anticorrosion tests.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11059483	Project-driven concurrent product development	When entering the global market, companies encounter several difficulties, the most severe being long product development times and too high costs of sequential product and process development. In order to overcome this problem, the companies will have to make a shift from sequential product development (which is wasteful regarding time and costs) to a project-driven concurrent product development as soon as possible. The article presents a procedure for project-driven concurrent product development by taking into account three strategic management methods: parallelness, standardization, and integration of product development processes. Also presented are the changes in organizational concept of the company, organization of processes, organization of work and organization of IT, which are required for a transition from sequential to concurrent product development. Finally, an analysis is presented on concurent product development teams in a company; this analysis is a prerequisite for a transition to a new method of product development.	gbr	Sage Publications	2009	1.01	Concurrent engineering	0.959	1.067
11059720	Differences in EEG current density related to intelligence	Differences in current density between high intelligent (IQ=127), and low intelligent individuals (IQ=87), while solving two oddball tasks (auditive and visual) were analyzed with low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (LORETA). In highly intelligent individuals a decrease in the volume of activated cortical gray matter between the P300 onset and the P300 peak amplitude was observed. The EEG of low intelligent individuals showed a reverse pattern of cortical activity. In the auditive oddball task the decrease in the activated cortical volume in high intelligent individuals was accompanied by an increase in current density, and a more left hemispheric source location at maximum current density. The results suggest that high intelligent individuals more efficiently distributed their cognitive resources needed to cope with the oddball tasks	nld	Elsevier Science publishers	2001	1.01	Brain research. Cognitive brain research	2.884	0.747
11060246	Ecological alternatives to the reduction and oxidation processes in dyeing with vat and sulphur dyes	This article gives a summary of the most commonly used ecologically unfriendly processes for the reduction and oxidation of vat and sulphur dyes. It also describes the new alternatives that are in the development stage and could be important in the near future. Sodium dithionite as the dominant reducing agent produces large amounts of sodium sulphate, and also toxic sulphite and thiosulphate as by-products. Consequently, high amounts of hydrogen peroxide and alkali are required for the treatment of effluents, which add to the cost of the process. Attempts have been made to use organic biodegradable reducing agents, enzymes, catalytic hydrogenation, and also indirect or direct, electrochemical reductive methods that employ a redox mediator (electron-carrier). The reduction has also been carried out via the dye radical molecule or, in the case of indigo, by direct electrochemical reduction using graphite as the electrode material. Physical techniques, for example using ultrasound, magnetic fields or UV have been shown to be effective only when used to accelerate methods using classical reduction and oxidation processes. However, although these methods offer some environmental benefits, there is still no satisfactory alternative reducing and/or oxidising agent available today.	nld	Elsevier	2008	1.02	Dyes and pigments	2.507	0.672
11060507	The influence of unilateral acceleration on color-gamut properties of a TFT-LCD	This letter describes experiments in which a TFT-LCD was exposed to unilateral acceleration amplitudes of different temporal profiles and durations. The results show that the color gamut is extended by increasing the load amplitude. Following the loading, the color gamut recedes and gradually approaches the reference range.	usa	The Society	2009	1.01	Journal of the Society for Information Display	1.033	1.506
11062038	The removal of reactive dye printing compounds using nanofiltration	A synthetically prepared reactive dye print wastewater, mimicking real wastewater obtained from a local textile mill, was treated by nanofiltration using an NFT-50 membrane in a plate and frame module configuration at different cross-flow velocities (0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 m/s) and pressures (2-15 bar). The nanofiltration membrane was evaluated for membrane fouling, permeate flux and its suitability for removing colour, conductivity, Na+ ions and COD as a function of operating pressure and feed concentration. The permeate separation efficiency was monitored by measuring the removal efficiency of colour, conductivity, Na+ ions and COD retention. The membrane achieved high dye retention for each of the four dyes (from 99.4 to 99.9%) and electrolytes used (63-73%). The retention of organic substances varied between 20 and 50%, depending on the pressure used; higher retentions were achieved at higher pressure and by using higher cross-flow velocities.	gbr	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Dyes and pigments	2.796	0.674
11063574	The maximum number of elementary particles in a super symmetric extension of the standard model	In a series of papers over the last few years El Naschie addressed the question of the minimum and maximum number of elementary particles which a mathematically consistent and a physically meaning full extended standard model should contain. El Naschie's minimum is 62 particles namely 60 believed to have been already discovered in addition to one Higgs boson and one graviton which are theoretically needed but are not jet experimentally conformed. By contrast the maximum number of 69 particles is although consistent with many quantum field theories based models as well as a classical result by Dyson may not be the only possibility. In the present work we show that a larger number of 72 or even 84 particles are easily shown to be consistent with super string theory and super symmetry. Our work consists of two parts. The first part is a reappraisal of El Naschie's results and the second is a derivation of the proposed possibility of an upper bound of 72 or 84 elementary particles.	nld	Pergamon	2007	1.01	Chaos, solitons and fractals	3.025	0.979
11064091	A company's readiness for concurrent product and process development	When entering the global market, companies encounter several difficulties, the most severe being long product development times, which are unacceptable for customers. In order to overcome this problem, companies will have to make a shift from sequential to concurrent product development as soon as possible. This paper presents strategic management in product development: parallelness, standardisation and integration of product development processes. Furthermore, the changes required by a transition from sequential to concurrent product development are presented with respect to the organisation of processes ,the organisation of work (team-work), IT and preparation of product documentation. The paper concludes with a case study: analysis regarding readiness for a transition to concurrent product development (capability and motivation for team-work, susceptibility to team-work dysfunctions) in a company which is a development supplier of components for automotive industry and a proposal of activities that will have to be carried out in the company before the transition to the concurrent product development is done.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11064347	Automatic detection of spring faults during assembly of reciprocating compressors	Automatic condition monitoring application for the detection of spring faults during assembling of reciprocating compressors is presented in this paper. Spring faults are characterized by incorrect positioning of compressor body on the supporting springs. Consequently, compressors with such faults should be detected and eliminated from the production. The paper describes development and application of a condition monitoring (CM) system for the production line. The CM system is composed of a mechanical pneumatic system and a software for the analysis and detection of failures. The mechanical system is designed to push toward the body of the compressor and simultaneously measure the pressing force. Spring faults are characterized by an increased force, therefore force signals are used to extract features, appropriate for an automatic condition monitoring. The system was tested during regular production in the company, with additional sets of compressors with built-in spring faults. The main contribution of this paper is the development and testing of various decision strategies for the recognition of faulty compressors. Standard 3-sigma decision strategy is compared to optimized stationary decision strategy and two adaptive strategies: adaptive strategy with constant deviation and adaptive strategy with adaptive deviation. Results show that adaptive decision strategy with adaptive deviation yields the best fault recognition rate and is, therefore recommended for the application on the industrial production line.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11066139	A novel pelton turbine model for water hammer analysis	This paper presents a novel Pelton turbine model for water hammer analysis. Water hammer phenomena have been investigated in Peruæica high-head hydropower plant (HPP), Montenegro. During its first phase of modernisation and refurbishment new distributors (needle valves) have been installed on the first two Pelton turbine units. Closure of the Pelton turbine distributors for the case of emergency shut-down and load rejection under governor control is modelled by two different closing laws i.e. the two-speed closing law and the law that considers actual (measured) needle stroke. Dissipation torques in turbine housing and shaft bearings are considered in the model. Stop procedure of the turbine unit is also investigated. Numerical results using the standard quasi-steady friction model and the convolution based unsteady friction model for different distributor closing laws are compared with the results of measurements. The agreement between computed and measured results is reasonable. It is shown that the effect of unsteady friction on water hammer events in Peruæica HPP is of little importance (slow varying transients).	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11066395	STEP-NC	The paper deals with the newest advances in standardization of manufacturing data management. The overview of previous work and projects and the latest developments on introducing the ISO 10303- 238 and ISO 14649 standards is presented. The advantages of the new data models are shown and the plans on future work are presented.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11067163	Availability management of complex technical systems	This work presents basic elements of availability management methodology in complex technical systems according to the business and user perspectives. The methodology primarily relates to Information Technology (IT) systems, and the presented availability perspectives are based on parameters resulted from the exploitation conditions, according to analysis of the Tax Administration Information System of the Republic of Serbia - DIS 2003. The result of the implemented technology enhances the availability level through the clear identification and elimination of critical elements that affect the stability of IT infrastructure and ensures a continuing service provided bz the system. The criteria of the optimization applied within the implementation of the availability enhancing process present a relation between the cost price of service provided by the system and expenditures of investments in improvements. Considering the established business requirements through the system, the availability management process should be given an appropriate level of service.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11067414	Assessment of the load-bearing capacity of a primary pipeline	High-alloyed Cr-Ni-based two-phase stainless steel (SS) cast alloys are commonly used in nuclear power plants. The mechanical equipment in these facilities can contribute to a reduction in its resistance to stable crack growth as a result of extended operating times and high temperatures. The toughness of these materials strongly depends on their delta (?$/delta$?) ferrite content, which spinodally decomposes into two phases with different ratios of Cr and Ni at a relatively low (slightly above 300 °C) temperature. This temperature is similar to the operating temperature of the vital parts, for example, the coolant system. The formation of two phases with the same crystalstructure but different lattice parameters causes internal elastic stresses that result in a hardness increase and an impact-toughness decrease. The result is an increased risk of crack formation in the stress-concentration zones such as the critical regions of different welded joints (e.g. ""L, T, K and X"" shapes). The values of the critical stress intensity factor change according to its position along the crack contour. Therefore, the aim of our study was to assess the influence of the materials' changes on the crack extension and the decrease of the primary pipeline's bearing capacity by taking account of the increased temperature and time of operation for the given loading conditions. The SINTAP (European Structural Integrity Assessment Procedure) was used for this assessment.	usa	Pergamon Press.	2007	1.01	Engineering fracture mechanics	1.227	1.049
11072278	A novel metalloprotease from Bacillus cereus for protein fibre processing	A novel protease produced by Bacillus cereus grown on wool as carbon and nitrogen source was purified. B. cereus protease is a neutral metalloprotease with a molecular mass of 45.6 kDa. The optimum activity was at 45 °C and pH 7.0. The substrate specificity was assessed using oxidized insulin B-chain and synthetic peptide substrates. The cleavage of the insulin B-chain was determined to be Asn3, Leu6, His10-Leu11, Ala14, Glu21, after 12 h incubation. Among the peptide substrates, the enzyme did not exhibit activity towards ester substrates; with p-nitroanilide, the kinetic data indicate that aliphatic and aromatic amino acids were the preferred residues at the P1 position. For furylacryloyl peptides substrates, which are typical substrates for thermolysin, the enzyme exhibited high hydrolytic activity with a Km values of 0.858 and 2.363 mM for N-(3-[2-Furyl]acryloyl)-Ala-Phe amide and N-(3-[2-Furyl]acryloyl)-Gly-Leu amide, respectively. The purified protease hydrolysed proteins substrates such as azocasein, azocoll, keratin azure and wool.	gbr	Butterworth Scientific Ltd	2007	1.01	Enzyme and microbial technology	1.969	2.575
11072534	The influence of enzymatic treatment on wool fibre properties using PEG-modified proteases	The main contribution of the presented work was to introduce the use of proteases modified with the soluble polymer polyethylene glycol (PEG) in the bio-finishing process of wool fibres, to target enzyme action to the outerparts of wool fibres, i.e. to avoid the diffusion and consequent destroying of the inner parts of the wool fibre structure, in the case of native proteases using. Different proteolytic enzymes from Bacillus lentus and Bacillus subtilis in native and PEG-modified forms were investigated and their influence on the modification of wool fibres morphology surface, chemical structure, as well as the hydrolysis of wool proteins, the physico-mechanical properties, and the sorption properties of 1:2 metal complex dye during dyeing were studied. SEM images of wool fibres confirmed smoother and cleaner fibre surfaces without fibre damages using PEG-modified proteases. Modified enzyme products have a benefit effect on the wool fibres felting behaviours (14%) in the case when PEG-modified B. lentus is used, without markedly fibre damage expressed by tensile strength and weight loss ofthe fibre. Meanwhile the dye exhaustion showed slower but comparable level of dye uptake at the end of the dyeing.	gbr	Butterworth Scientific Ltd	2007	1.01	Enzyme and microbial technology	1.969	2.575
11072790	Decolorization of textile dyes by whole cultures of Ischnoderma Resinosum and by purified laccase and Mn-peroxidase	Ischnoderma resinosum produced extracellular ligninolytic enzymes laccase and MnP. The activity of laccase achieved the maximum on day 10 (29.4 U L-1), the MnP on day 14 (34.5 U L-1). Laccase and Mn-peroxidase were purified from the culture liquid using gel permeation and ion-exchange chromatographies. Purified Mn-peroxidase performed decolorization of all textile dyes tested (Reactive Black 5, Reactive Blue 19, Reactive Red 22 and Reactive Yellow 15). Laccase was inactive with Reactive Black 5 and Reactive Red 22, while all dyes were decolorized after addition of the redox mediators violuric acid (VA) and hydroxybenzotriazole (HBT). The culture liquid from I. resinosum cultures was also able to decolorize all dyes as well as the synthetic dyebaths in the presence of VA and HBT. The highest decolorization rates were detected in acidic pH (3-4).	gbr	Butterworth Scientific Ltd	2007	1.01	Enzyme and microbial technology	1.969	2.575
11073820	Dynamics of Hungarian stock market linkages with European stock markets in the period 1997-2010	We examine the comovement and spillover dynamics between returns of the Hungarian and six European stock markets (the Austrian, French, German, UK, Czech and the Slovene stock market). Applying a DCC-GARCH for the period 1997-2010, we find that: i) Comovement between Hungarian and European stock markets is time-varying; ii) There are significant return spillovers between the Hungarian and the European stock markets.	ukr	Nacional´na akademiâ upravlinnâ	2012	1.01	Aktual´ni problemi ekonomiki	0.039	1.032
1108849	Effect of acarbose on glucose-6-phosphatase in liver of CBA diabetic mice	Acarbose is the alpha-glucosidase inhibitor and delays the uptake of glucose or fructose in to the circulation. The aim of this study was to determine activities of glucose-6-phosphatase in liver homogenates of CBA diabetic mice on feeding with and without acarbose in chow	hrv	Hrvatsko prirodoslovno društvo	2002	1.01	Periodicum biologorum	0.094	1.435
11091289	Heat sources and electronic refrigerators	Tunneling electric current through the normal metal-insulator-superconductor junction is accompanied with heat flow out of normal metal when properly voltage biased. The phenomenon enables cooling of electrons and phonons (under specific conditions) in the region below 1 K. At lower bath temperatures two parasitic heat sources decrease refrigerator performance. (i) Due to tunneling of hot electrons from a normal metal electrode to a superconductive one an excess quasiparticle density appears in the superconductor which results in tunneling of electrons back to the normal metal and consequently the normal metal electron temperature increases. This phenomenom is called back tunneling. (ii) Second heat source is is the Cooper pair formation: the part of energy released by the formation of Cooper pairs in a superconductor is dissipated in a normal metal. Both contribution are calculated by considering quasiparticle behavior in the junction region and no free parameters are introduced. Diffusion, tunneling and back tunneling of quasiparticles in the superconductor in equilibrium are considered to calculate temperatures of electrons and phonons in the normal metal electrode. This detailed model explains the increase of normal metal electron temperatures above the bath temperature at lower bath temperatures.	usa	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2001	1.01	IEEE transactions on applied superconductivity	1.278	0.724
11091545	On Herstein's Lie map conjectures, I	We describe surjective Lie homomorphisms from Lie ideals of skew elements of algebras with involution onto noncentral Lie ideals (factored by their centers) of skew elements of prime algebras ?${\cal D}$? with involution, provided that ?${\rm char}({\cal D}) \ne 2$? and ?${\cal D}$? is not PI of low degree. This solves the last remaining open problem of Herstein on Lie isomorphisms module cases of PI rings of low degree. A more general problem on maps preserving any polynomial is also discussed.	usa	American Mathematical Society.	2001	1.01	Transactions of the American Mathematical Society	0.600	0.48
11092763	Extension of the Bissell-Johnson plasma-sheath model for application to fusion-relevant and general plasmas	This article presents an approach to solving a special Fredholm-type integral equation of the first kind with a particular kernel containing a modified Bessel function for applications in plasma physics. From the physical point of view, the problem was defined by Bissell and Johnson (B&J) [Phys. Fluids 30,779 (1987)] as a task to find the potential profile and the ion velocity distribution function in a plane-parallel discharge with a Maxwellian ion source. The B&J model is a generalization of the well-known Tonks-Langmuir (T&L) [Phys. Rev. 34, 876 (1929)] discharge model characterized by a ""cold"" ion source. Unlike the T&L model, which can be readily solved analytically, attempts to solve the B&J model with a ""warm"" ion source have been done only numerically. However, the validity of numerical solutions up to date remains constrained to a rather limited range of a crucial independent parameter of the B&J integral equation, which mathematically is the width of a Gaussian distribution and phzsically represents the ion temperature. It was solved only for moderately warm ion sources. This paper presents the exact numerical solution of the B&J model, which is valid without any restriction regarding the above-mentioned parameter. It is shown that the ion temperature is very different from the temperature of the ion source. The new results with high-temperature ion sources are not only of particular importance for understanding and describing the plasma-sheath boundary in fusion plasmas, but are of considerable interest for discharge problems in general. The eigenvalue of the problem, found analytically by Harrison and Thompson [Proc. Phys. Soc. 74, 145 (1959)] for the particular case of a cold ion source, is here extended to arbitrary ion-source temperatures.	usa	American Institute of Physics	2009	1.01	Physics of plasmas	2.475	1.922
11099670	Pressure drop characteristics of poly(high internal phase emulsion) monoliths	Today, monoliths are well-accepted chromatographic stationary phases due to several advantageous properties in comparison with conventional chromatographic supports. A number of different types of monoliths have already been described, among them recently a poly(high internal phase emulsion) (PolyHIPE) type of chromatographic monoliths. Due to their particular structure, we investigated the possibility of implementing different mathematical models to predict pressure drop on PolyHIPE monoliths. It was found that the experimental results of pressure drop on PolyHIPE monoliths can best be described by employing the representative unit cell (RUC) model, which was originally derived for the prediction of pressure drop on catalytic foams. Models intended for the description of particulate beds and silica monoliths were not as accurate. The results of this study indicate that the PolyHIPE structure under given experimental condition is, from a hydrodynamic point of view, to some extent similar to foam structures, though any extrapolation of these results may not provide useful predictions of pressure versus flow relations and further experiments are required.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Journal of chromatography	3.641	1.847
11100699	Energy conversion efficiency of hybrid electric heavy-duty vehicles operating according to diverse drive cycles	Energy consumption and exhaust emissions of hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) strongly depend on the HEV topology, power ratios of their components and applied control strategy. Combined analytical and simulation approach was applied to analyze energy conversion efficiency of different HEV topologies. Analytical approach is based on the energy balance equations and considers allenergy paths in the HEVs from the energy sources to the wheels and to other energy sinks. Simulation approach is based on a fast forward-facing simulation model for simulating parallel and series HEVs as well as for conventional internal combustion engine vehicles, and considers all components relevant for modeling energy conversion phenomena. Combined approachenables evaluation of energy losses on different energy paths and provides their impact on the fuel economy. It therefore enables identification of most suitable HEV topology and of most suitable power ratios of the components for targeted vehicle application, since it reveals and quantifies the mechanisms that could lead to improved energy conversion efficiency of particular HEV. The paper exposes characteristics of the test cycles that lead to improved energy conversion efficiency of HEVs. Mechanisms leading to improved fuel economy of parallel HEVs through drive-away and vehicle propulsion at low powertrain loads by electric motor are also analyzed. It was also shown that control strategies managing energy flow through electric storage devices significantly influence energy conversion efficiency of series HEVs.	gbr	Pergamon	2009	1.01	Energy Conversion and Management	1.944	1.269
11105563	AE signals as laser cutting quality indicators	The paper presents results of an analysis of acoustic emission (AE) signals obtained during laser cutting of a steel plate, which is frequently used in the production of automotive body components. The acoustic emission in the plate, which is produced by various physical phenomena occurring during the laser cutting process, was measured with contact PYT sensors. During the laser cutting process, continuous AE signals, which are produced by the action of a cutting gas, were captured. After laser cutting, AE bursts produced by various phenomena during material cooling were captured. The results obtained confirm that both the continuous signals occurring during the cutting process and the AE bursts after laser cutting provide a good insight into the quality of a laser cut performed. Results of a factorial analysis of an influence of laser cutting conditions on the measured continuous AE signals are described. Response surfaces of amplitude average and intensity average and their mutual correlation are established. An influence of cutting parameters on the size of a dross formed at the lower laser-cut edge, which is an important indicator of cut quality, is analysed and a relation with the measured AE signals is established.	gbr	British Institute of Non-Destructive Testing	2009	1.01	Insight	0.434	1.009
1110664	Lack of Socs2 expression causes the high-growth phenotype in mice	Characterizing causal molecular defects in mouse models of over growth or dwarfism helps to identify the key genes and pathways that regulate the growth process. We report here the molecular basis for high growth (hg), a spontaneous mutation that causes a 30-50% increase in postnatal growth. We conclude that hg is an allele of the suppressor of cytokine signaling 2 (Socs2), a member of a family of regulators of cytokine signal transduction. We demonstrate mapping of Socs2 to the hg region, lack of Socs2 mRNA expression, a disruption of the Socs2 locus in highgrowth (HG) mice, and a similarity of pheotypes of HG mice and Socs2 mice generated by gene targeting. Characteristics of the HG phenotype suggest that Socs2 deficiency affects growth prenatally and postnatally most likely through deregulating the growth hormone (GH)/insulin-like growth factor I(IGF1). These results demonstrate a critical role for Socs2 in controlling growth.	usa	Academic Press	2001	1.01	Genomics	3.418	1.706
11107868	Integral management	Even though management evolution has been described differently in the literature, many authors agree that in the last two decades we can observe the development of integral management. Many models of integral management have been developed during these years. One of them is the MER Model of integral management, the beginnings of which date back to the years 1992 and 1993. The model has been changed recently. Major changes introduced in the renewed model regard the enterprises' success factors. Some new key success factors were added in the MER model based on new scientific cognitions as well as taking into consideration new developments in the socio-political and economic environment. In this contribution we present the most important features of the renewed model with more detailed explanation of key success factors.	hun	Bp. Tech Polytech. Inst.	2012	1.01	Acta polytechnica Hungarica	0.385	0.881
11108636	Enterprise culture as one of the enterprise's key success factors (integral management approach)	Considering the theories and research observations presented in this paper, we can state that organizational culture, with its values and norms, is essential for ensuring the long term success of an enterprise. The present article shows the research conclusions on the impact of enterprise culture on the success of the enterprises observed.	hun	Bp. Tech Polytech. Inst.	2012	1.01	Acta polytechnica Hungarica	0.385	0.881
11114518	Mathematical modelling of timber-framed walls strengthened with CFRP strips	This paper provides mathematical modelling for prefabricated timber-framed walls composed of a timber frame and fibre-plaster boards. Because the tensile strength of the fibre-plaster boards is approximately 10-times lower than the compressive one, it is convenient to strengthen the boards in their tensile diagonal direction with carbon fibre-reinforced polymer (CFRP) strips, which are glued to the boards. Based on analysis of experimental research results [7] special approximate mathematical models have been developed. The models enable simultaneously to consider the influence of inserted CFRP strips, flexibility of mechanical fasteners in the connecting areas and any appearing of tensile cracks in the coating boards.	gbr	Butterworth Scientific Ltd	2008	1.01	Applied mathematical modelling	0.931	1.044
11114774	The extended homogenous cavitation transport model	Cavitating flows are complex three dimensional flows with phase change in the low pressure regions. These are very sensitive to bubbles formation process and to velocity/pressure pulsations caused by turbulence. The presented cavitation model derived from a reduced Rayleigh-Plesset equation accounts forsome of these effects. This model is based on the additional generic transport equation for vapour phase. The cavitation influence over the mixture density and viscosity is included in the model, which is implemented incommercial, general purpose Computational Fluid Dynamics code and validated on practical flow examples.	esp	International association of hydraulic engineering and research	2007	1.01	Journal of hydraulic research	0.436	0.617
11117334	Identification of liquid/solid transformations in eutectic Pb-Sn alloy	In this paper the applicability and the efficiency of in-situ electrical resistance measurements with a four-probe method for monitoring the solidification process are presented. For this purpose a special measurement cell was developed. It enables simultaneous in-situ electrical resistance and temperature measurements during solidification to characterize L->S phase transformations in metals and alloys. The method was experimentally demonstrated with a eutectic Pb-Sn (i.e. Pb-61.9 wt % Sn) alloy. Additionally, the L->S phase transformation was monitored and compared with conventional differential thermoanalysis. The results of our investigation show that the simultaneous in-situ electrical resistance and temperature measurement method can determine the exact position of the start and end points of the L->S phase transformations from the resistance curves R(t) and corresponding temperatures.	deu	Hanser	2007	1.01	Zeitschrift für Metallkunde	0.857	0.661
11119131	Modification of axial fan flow by trailing edge self-induced blowing	Axial fans often show adverse flow conditions at the fan hub and at the tip of the blade. The modification of conventional axial fan blade is presented. Hollow blade was manufactured from the hub to the tip. It enables the formation of self-induced internal flow through internal passages. The internal flow enters the passage of the hollow blade through the opening near the fan hub and exits through the trailing edge slots at the tip of the hollow blade. The study of the influence of internal flow on the flow field of axial fan and modifications of axial fan aerodynamic characteristics is presented. The characteristics of the axial fan with the internal flow were compared to characteristics of a geometrically equivalent fan without internal flow. The results show integral measurements of performance testing using standardized test rig and the measurements of local characteristics. The measurements of local characteristics were performed with a hotwire anemometry and a five-hole probe. Reduction in adverse flow conditions near the trailing edge at the tip of the hollow blade, boundary-layer reduction in the hollow blade suction side, and reduction in flow separation were attained. The introduction of the self-induced blowing led to the preservation of external flow direction defined by the blade geometry, which enabled maximal local energy conversion. The integral characteristic reached a higher degree of efficiency.	usa	American Society of Mechanical Engineers	2009	1.01	Journal of fluids engineering	0.452	0.969
11119387	Investigation of machining performance in high-pressure jet assisted turning of Inconel 718	This paper investigates the application of the high-pressure jet assistance (HPJA) in rough turning of Inconel 718 with coated carbide tools. The region of operability, which sets the boundaries of the process parameters, has been experimentally determined using the tool-material pair (TMP) methodology. The assessment of HPJA machining performance is based on response surface methodology (RSM), which integrates a design of experiment (DOE) and a regression modelling technique for fitting a model to experimental. This leads to a new insight into the influence of the cutting process on chip breakability, cutting forces, contact length, surface finish and tool temperature, which are the key machining performance measures.	usa	Pergamon	2009	1.01	International journal of machine tools & manufacture	1.956	0.969
11120156	The roots of the banking crisis in the new EU member states	We contributed to the empirical evidence of the impact of macroeconomic environment on the non-performing loans (NPL) ratio dynamics by analyzing the panel model with fixed effects, the model with random effects and instrumental variable regressions to control for a potential endogeneity problem. Economic and consumption growth proved to be positively correlated with the business cycle in the ten new EU member states (NMS-10), which raised the quality of the loan portfolio. Compliance with the Basel Core Principles was shown to improve the NPL ratio dynamics.	rou	Expert	2012	1.01	Romanian Journal of Economic Forecasting	0.246	1.032
11121179	Static and dynamic characteristics of a hydraulic Wheatstone bridge mass flowmeter	The hydraulic Wheatstone measuring bridge is a potential linear-flowmeter solution for direct mass flow measurements. In a concrete example of the flowmeter, four matched orifices are used as the local flow restrictors in the bridge network. This paper presents an analysis of the nonlinearity of the static measuring characteristics of the hydraulic measuring bridge, which results from the impact of the flow rate on the local pressure loss coefficient of the orifices. The results of the experimental analysis were confirmed with solutions of the physical-mathematical model of the flowmeter. Another objective of this study was to evaluate the suitability of this flowmeter for pulsating flow measurements. For this reason, a dynamic model of the flowmeter was built by upgrading the steady-state flow model with the effects of fluid compressibility and inertia. Since the flowmeters characteristic is linear, it was found to be unaffected by the square root errors, which is the case with standard pressure differential flowmeters. On the other hand, the flowmeters frequency characteristic exhibited a typical resonance, the value of which depends on the fluid and the dimensional properties of the bridge.	gbr	Butterworth	2009	1.01	Flow measurement and instrumentation	0.721	0.969
11135254	Sol-gel-based optical sensor for the detection of aqueous amines	We present an optical sensor for the detection of aqueous amines obtained by incorporating chromoionophore XV (ETHT 4001) into sol-gel thin films. Acid- and base-catalyzed sol-gel processes were studied to prepare stable ormosil layers using various amounts of organically modified sol-gel precursor such asmethyltriethoxysilane (MTriEOS). The sensor layers were coated with a protective layer of microporous white polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) in order to prevent interference from ions and ambient light. The measurements were carried out in a flow-through cell in the reflection mode. Acid-catalyzed ormosil layers (pH 1) based on the copolymerization of tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) and MTriEOS did not show any change in signal upon exposure to aqueous amine solutions, while base-catalyzed sensor layers (pH 3 and 13) showed significant changes in signal. The response time (t100) for the base-catalyzedsensor layer L3 (pH 13) upon exposure to different solutions containing 0-608 mmol L-1 aqueous propylamine was 20-30 s, the regeneration time was 70 s and the detection limit was 0.1 mmol L-1. The sensor response was reproducible and reversible. The porous ormosil layers permit dry sensor storage conditions.	nld	Springer	2007	1.01	Analytical and bioanalytical chemistry	2.867	1.847
1113736	Quantitative trait loci affecting growth in high growth (hg) mice	A genome-wide scan performed in order to identify Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) associated with growth in a population segregating high growth (hg), a partially recessive mutation that enhances growth rate and body size in the mouse. A sample of 262 hg/hg mice was selected from C57BL/6J-hg/hg x CAST/EiJ F[down]2 cross and typed with 79 SSLP markers distributed across the genome. Eight significant loci were identified through interval mapping. Loci on Chromosomes (CHRS) 2 and 8 affected the growth of F [down]2 mice. Loci on Chr 2 and 11 affected growth rate and carcass lean mass (protein and ash). A locus on Chr 9 modified femur length and another one in Chr 17 affcted both carcass lean mass and femur length, but none of these had significant effects on growth rate. Loci on Chrs 5 and 9 modified carcass fat content. Additive effects were positive for C5BL/6J alleles, except for the two loci affecting carcass fatness. Typing of selelcted markers in 274 +/+F[down]2 mice revealed significant interactions between hg and other growth QTL, which were detected as changes in gene action (additive or dominant) and in allele substitution effects. Knowledge about interactions between loci, especially when major genes are involved, will help in the identification of positional candidate genes in the understanding of the complex genetic regulation of growth rate and body size in mammals.	usa	Springer	2001	1.01	Mammalian genome	2.318	1.706
11138568	A Kleinecke-Shirokov type condition with Jordan automorphisms	Let ?$\varphi$? be a Jordan automorphism of an algebra ?${\cal A}$?. The situation when a element ?$a \in {\cal A}$? satisfied ?$\frac{1}{2} (\varphi(a) + \varphi^{-1}(a)) = a$? is considered. The result which we obtain implies the Kleinecke-Shirokov theorem and Jacobson's lemma.	pol	Pañstwowe Wydawnictwo Naukowe	2001	1.01	Studia Mathematica	0.399	0.48
11139350	An integrity analysis of washing machine holders	The paper deals with structure integrity analysis of the holder for the carrying cross of a washing machine drum. Premature fracture of the holder occurred between mechanical sustainable tests of washing machine in the factory. In order to prevent fracture, the task was to determine the reasons for premature fracture of the holder and to estimate the suitability of the new design of the holder cross. Input data for structure integriry analysis were obtained by material by mechanical testing of used materials. Stress and strain analysis of holder limit load was performed by finite element modeling of holder. Dynamic tests of holders with two different thicknesses were done on a servo-hydraulic machine in order to find dynamical strength and endurance of holder. Fracture behaviour of holders is defined as initiation and propagation of crack. The obtained behaviour confirmed that the new design of holders reduces stress concentration in the critical region. Consequently, the new holder subjected to the same dynamic load can endure a higher number of cycles until breakage. The total number of cycles overcomes industrial testing requirements.	svn	Inštitut za kovinske materiale in tehnologije	2007	1.01	Materiali in tehnologije	0.143	2.034
11139611	The influence of viscosity on the friction in lubricated DLC contacts at various sliding velocities	Diamond-like-carbon (DLC) coatings are one of the promising types of protective coatings for various mechanical applications, including those under lubricated conditions. In recent years the research focus of lubricated DLC contacts has been primarily on the chemical aspects of lubrication, while the physical properties of the oils and the other physical lubrication aspectswere to a large extent neglected. In this work we analyse the friction behaviour of self-mated DLC/DLC contacts that use various viscosity grades of polyalphaolefin (PAO) base oils, i.e., 18, 30 and 46 mm2/s, at a range of velocities from 0.04 to 0.41 m/s. For a comparison, we also investigated some steel/steel contacts. At low velocities (up to 0.08 m/s) we observed almost no effect of the viscosity for the DLC surfaces, suggesting a predominant influence of the DLC solid-solid contacts on the friction. However, relatively strong, physically adsorbed oil-film layers were present on the DLCsurfaces, which were able to prevent the coatings from wearing out under low-speed conditions, that otherwise occur under dry conditions. In the high-velocity region (above 0.17 m/s), the viscosity has no effect on the steel contacts, but higher-viscosity oils tended to reduce the DLC friction, suggesting that for DLC surfaces, higher viscosities are required for the same film thickness and quality of lubrication than for steel surfaces. This is due to the poorer wetting and oil-adsorption properties of DLC compared to steel. However, at the same time, this effect leads to reduced friction in DLCcontacts, which was about 15% lower for all the investigated sliding velocities.	gbr	Butterworth Scientific Limited	2009	1.01	Tribology international	1.690	0.969
11143190	A multi-agent system for university course timetabling	In the paper, we present a new architecture and implementation of a multi-agent system for university timetable generation. Agents as representatives of individual courses have the task of allocating the necessary human and technical resources through negotiation. We define the nego-tiation protocol and describe autonomous decisions of agents within the prescribed framework. The advantages of the multi-agent approach are a direct resolution of conflicts, strategic versatility of negotiation, and natural representation of some real-life problems.	usa	Hemisphere Pub. Co.	2007	1.01	Applied artificial intelligence	0.753	0.927
11143196	Influence of organizational factors on management tools usage in Slovenian organizations	Purpose - In the global competitive environment, managers of organizations must permanently rethink and renew their work, especially about the use of different managerial tools. A selection of suitable management tools for organization requires consideration of characteristics of the known tools, comparison of different tools, and consideration of demands and conditions of the organizations. But direct comparison of different management tools is not possible because of their content-related and methodological differences. In management theory, various authors tried to consider the use of management tools more deeply. The main purpose of this paper is to examine the influence of important organizational factors on usage of single management tools in Slovenian organizations. Thus, we consider: 1) usage patterns of management tools in different areas worldwide, 2) the influence of single organizational factors - i.e. education, position, and working years, on the usage of management tools in Slovenian organizations, and 3) the influence of a linear combination of selected factors on usage of management tools in Slovenian organizations. Design/methodology/approach - A qualitative analysis is applied on the basis of the selected cognitions from Management, and Organization. The quantitative analysis includes desk research about the management tools, and analysis of the results from a survey about management tools in Slovenian organizations in 2010. In examining the impact of the considered organizational factors (separately and in combination) on management tools we use linear regression analysis to predict the influence of single factors and linear combination of the selected factors on the use of selected management tools. AMOS 17.0 was used for analysis. Findings - Intensity of management tools usage in Slovenian organizations is similar to the global patterns, while patterns of their usage are rather different. Examination of factors influencing usage of the top five management tools in Slovenian organizations reveal: education has the strongest impact on the usage of management tools, the impact of employees' position in organization is weaker, and the impact of working years is very weak. When we take into consideration all three predictors simultaneously, the impact of education and position becomes weaker, while the impact of working years becomes insignificant. We apply a deeper approach to gauge the influence of organizational factors on usage of the selected management tools. The impact of other considered factors, we find, is not significant. Research limitations/implications - Research is limited to a hypothesis, broader qualitative aspects encountered during desk research, and some quantitative analysis of results from our survey. We test our hypotheses and the chosen model on the top five management tools most used by employees in Slovenian organizations. Practical implications - Authors try to overcome the prevailing practice of very general consideration of management tools usage, especially regarding organizational factors, which influence the usage of management tools. Authors suggest a new approach, hardly known in the main-stream literature. They propose a more specific and target-oriented approach to consideration of management tools usage in business. Originality/value - Available management literature does not provide a similar solution for considering and researching the usage of management tools in business. This is useful for business practice in organizations, for advancing the usage of management tools, since the most important organizational factors on management tools usage are outlined.	ltu	Technologija.	2012	1.01	Inžinerin¹e ekonomika	1.468	1.032
11143958	A fracture mechanics model for the analysis of micro-pitting in regard to lubricated rolling-sliding contact problems	A computational model is presented for the analysis of micro-pitting in regardto lubricated rolling-sliding contact problems. This model assumes the appearance of an initial microcrack on the contact surface due to the mechanical or thermal treatment of the material, and as a consequence of an on-going process in early the stage of exploitation. The discretised model of the contacting mechanical elements is subjected to normal loading (Hertzian contact pressure), tangential loading (friction between contacting surfaces) and internal pressure to the crack surfaces. Crack propagation is predicted as follows: (1) using modified maximum tangential stress criterion, which takes into account the influence of stress intensity factors KI and KII, T-stress, stress on the crackæs surface caused by lubricant pressure inside the crack, and the critical distance ahead of the crack tip and (2) the classical maximum tangential stress criterion, which only takes into account the influence of the stress intensity factors KI and KII. The stress intensity factor based on these two criteria is then used in a short crack growth theory to determine the fatigue life of an initial crack to extent up to micro-pit. The developed model is applied to a real spur gear pair.	gbr	Elsevier	2007	1.01	International journal of fatigue	1.117	0.706
11144470	Numerical modelling of crack path in the lubricated rolling-sliding contact problems	A two-dimensional computational model for simulation of contact fatigue of lubricated rolling-sliding contact problems is presented. In the model it is assumed that the initial crack of length 0.02 mm is initiated at the surface due to previous mechanical or heat treatment of the material as well as a consequence of running process in an early stage of exploitation. The discretised model with the initial crack is then subjected to the normal contact pressure and tangential loading due to friction between the contacting surfaces. The model also considers the moving contact of the contacting surfaces and fluid trapped in the crack. The crack propagation pathis predicted with the MTS and modified MTS criterion, which takes into account the influence of the stress intensity factor KI and KII, T-stress, stress on the crack surface caused by lubricant pressure inside the crack and critical distance ahead the crack tip. The numerical results correspond well with available experimental data.	usa	Pergamon Press.	2008	1.01	Engineering fracture mechanics	1.713	1.335
11144726	Inhibitory effect of non-ionic surfactants of the TRITON-X series on the corrosion of carbon steel in sulphuric acid	The corrosion inhibition characteristics of non-ionic surfactants of the TRITON-X series, known as TRITON-X-100 and TRITON-X-405, on stainless steel (SS) type X4Cr13 in sulphuric acid were investigated by potentiodynamic polarisation measurements. It was found that these surfactants act as good inhibitors of the corrosion of stainless steel in 2 mol L-1 H2SO4 solution, but the inhibition efficiency strongly depends on the electrode potential. Thepolarisation data showed that the non-ionic surfactants used in this study acted as mixed-type inhibitors and adsorb on the stainless steel surface, in agreement with the Flory-Huggins adsorption isotherm. Calculated Gads values are -57.79 kJ mol-1 for TRITON-X-100, and -87.5 kJ mol-1 for TRITON-X-405. From the molecular structure it can be supposed that these surfactants adsorb on the metal surface through two lone pairs of electrons on the oxygen atoms of the hydrophilic head group, suggesting a chemisorption mechanism.	nld	Pergamon Press	2007	1.01	Electrochimica Acta	2.848	1.992
11145494	The effect of a material's heterogeneity on the stress and strain distribution in the vicinity of a crack front	In this investigation a high-strength low-alloyed (HSLA) steel of the 700-MPa strength class was used as a base material. A butt-welded joint with X grooves was produced with an overmatched weld metal that had a yield strength 23 % greater than that of the base material. Three-point bending B x 2B test specimens (thickness B = 36 mm) were extracted from the welded joints. The straight crack front (a0 = 35,571 mm) crosses different microstructures through the thickness of the specimen. Both fracture-mechanics tests and a 3D finite-element analysis were performed. The CTOD parameter of the fracture toughness was measured and calculated numerically. The loading level at which stable crack growth occurred was also determined. The comparison of the experimental and numerical values of the CTOD (bs) displacements showed good agreement. The principal stress, ?$/delta_{y}$?, the Mises equivalent stress, ?$/delta_{eq}$?. and the plastic equivalent strain, ?$/epsilon_{pl, eq}$?, at the moment of crack initiation were studied for six equidistant layers from the surface to the mid-thickness of the specimen. The dependence of the crack-opening stress (denoted as ax in this paper) on the local fracture-toughness value was considered as the parameter which determines the direction of the crack-front propagation. The results show that the lower strength of the base metal contributes to the crack-path deviation in the mid-thickness of the specimen. Both the crack-path deviation and the higher toughness of the base metal increase the critical fracture toughness value of the welded joint.	svn	Inštitut za kovinske materiale in tehnologije	2007	1.01	Materiali in tehnologije	0.143	2.034
11150108	Development of the Slovenian textile and clothing industry	The Slovenian textile and clothing industry began the transition phase and process of restructuring in the country. A number of firms and employees were significantly reduced at the time. When Slovenia entered the EU, the competitiveness of the industry had declined due to cheap imports of textile products mainly from Asian countries. The economic crisis and major changes in the European textile and clothing industries required faster and more effective adaptations to the current global situation in this industry. Thus, the EU began with projects concerning technology platforms and centers of excellence. Slovenia also has adapted similar projects with technological platforms and the integration of textile and clothing firms into clusters, which should lead to greater competitiveness for the Slovenian textile and clothing industry.	rou	Editura Certex	2012	1.01	Industria textilaa	0.291	0.821
11150358	Performance comparison of self-adaptive and adaptive differential evolution algorithms	Differential evolution (DE) has been shown to be a simple, yet powerful, evolutionary algorithm for global optimization. for many real problems. Adaptation, especially self-adaptation, has been found to be highly beneficial for adjusting control parameters, especially when done without any user interaction. This paper presents differential evolution algorithms, whichuse different adaptive or self-adaptive mechanisms applied to the control parameters. Detailed performance comparisons of these algorithms on the benchmark functions are outlined.	deu	Springer	2007	1.01	Soft computing	0.607	1.122
11150619	Transitioning to sustainable production	This two part paper presents general issues, methods and a case study for achieving production sustainability on a machining technology level. In order to tackle these issues, the paper promotes sustainable production via the alternative machining technologies, namely cryogenic and high pressure jet assisted machining that have a high potential to cut costs and improve competitiveness by reducing resource consumption and thus creating less waste. The general issues of sustainable technologies pointed out with a comparative case study life cycle assessment performed for alternative machining processes are covered in part I of the work, concluding that future of sustainable production is going to entail the use of alternative machining technologies to reduce consumption rates, environmental burdens, and health risks simultaneously, while increasing performances and profitability. As an upgrade to this part, overall cost evaluation is covered by a case study in part II of this work.	gbr	Elsevier	2010	1.01	Journal of cleaner production	2.425	1.886
11151131	Capability of high pressure cooling in the turning of surface hardened piston rods	An experimental study was performed to investigate the capabilities of dry, conventional and high pressure cooling (HPC) in the turning of surface hardened piston rods used in fluid power applications. Machining experiments were performed using coated carbide tools at cutting speeds up to 160 m/min. The cooling capabilities are compared by monitoring of chip breakability, process regions of operability, cooling efficiency, tool wear, tool life and cutting forces. Test results showed that dry cutting could not be performed due to long and ductile chips that were formed for all investigated cutting conditions. In comparison to conventional cooling the significant increase of cutting speed and feed rate region of operability was recorded when machining with HPC. Tool life analysis proved a five times increase in tool life when machining with HPC. Furthermore HPC also improved chip breakability and reduced coolant consumption.	nld	Elsevier	2010	1.01	Journal of materials processing technology	1.567	1.019
11151387	High pressure jet assisted turning of surface hardened piston rods	An experimental study has been performed to investigate the capabilities of dry, conventional and high pressure jet assisted turning of surface hardened piston rods used in high pressure fluid power applications. The capabilities of different hard turning procedures are compared by means of chip breakbility, cooling efficiency, tool wear, tool life, cutting forces and process regions of operability, i.e., technological windows. All machining experiments are performed under conventional cutting speeds using coated carbide tools.	che	Inderscience Enterprises	2010	1.01	International journal of materials & product technology	0.258	2.13
11151899	Homodyne quadrature laser interferometer applied for the studies of optodynamic wave propagation in a rod	The localized Coulomb dry friction on the surface of a rod significantly alters the propagation of an optodynamic wave. The effects of frictional clamping on the rod's dynamics were measured with a homodyne quadrature laser interferometer at the rear end of the rod. The measurements are supported by a theoretical description of the discrete motion of the finite rod, which is based on a general result representing the interaction of a laser-ablation-induced stress wave with a frictional clamping location.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
1115199	Clinical outcome of day 2 versus day 5 transfer in cycles with one or two developed embryos	Objective: To determine whether extended culture of embryos to blastocysts hasany benefit in cycles with only one or two created embryos. Design: Retrospective analysis of cycles comparing outcomes of day 2 and day 5 transfers. Our day 2 group was from the year 1999 and our day 5 group, from the year 2000. Setting: Assisted reproductive technology program of a teaching hospital. Patient(s): All patients, irrespective of age, who had developed one or two embryos. Intervention(s): Stimulated IVF, intracytoplasmic sperm injection, or testicular sperm extraction and intracytoplasmic sperm injection cycles with 2-day culture in universal IVF medium (n = 133) or 5-day culture in BlastAssist media (MediCult, Jyllinge, Denmark; n = 132). Main Outcome Measure(s): Pregnancy, implantation, and take-home baby rates. Result(s): In the groups of 2-day and 5-day culture, embryo transfer was performed in 98% and in 57% of cycles, respectively. However, the total implantation rate per created embryo (18% vs. 18%), the pregnancy rate per cycle (23% vs. 21%), and the take-home baby rate (69.4% vs. 71.4%) did not differ between the day 2 and day 5 groups. Conclusion(s): Extended culture of embryos does not improve or decrease their capacity for implantation but only allows for better selection and is therefore not necessary in cycles with fewer than three embryos.	usa	American Fertility Society	2002	1.01	Fertility and sterility	3.202	1.357
11155227	Analysis of test rig drive for air springs	To determine the life of air springs, a new test rig enabling dynamic sinusoidal loading of air springs has been developed. The test rig enables the adjustment of air spring deformation and load frequency, as well as the adjustment of its geometry to different sizes of air springs. Four air springs are tested simultaneously. Between the phases of loading the air spring some time delay occurs, which is why the work that the air spring returns into the drive system during its unloading is consumed as well. The concept of the test rig and the possibilities of adjustments are presented. In order to carry out a dynamic analysis of the drive and determine the load ontest rig elements, computer program has been developed enabling the calculation of the forces, torques, and power of the driving motor for different sizes of air springs and various testing conditions. The algorithms that the program is based on and the characteristic results of the calculations are presented. Also, a comparison of energy consumption for the test of one, two, and four air springs is shown. The advantages of the new test rig as compared to other test rigs are discussed, too.	gbr	Mechanical Engineering Publications	2010	1.01	Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers	0.451	0.909
11155929	Marginal erosive discovertebral ""Romanus"" lesions in ankylosing spondylits demonstrated by contrast enhancemend Gd-DTPA magnetic resonance imaging	Objective. To assess the value of Gd-DTPA magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in the demonstration of marginal destructive discovertebral Romanus lesions in ankylosing spondylitis. Design and patients. A prospective study of Gd-DTPA MRimaging was performed in 39 patients with a clinical diagnosis of ankylosingspondylitis and typical Romanus lesions seen on radiographs of the thoracolumbar spine. MR morphological appearances and signal intensity changesat the discovertebral junctions were analysed and compared with the radiographic findings. Results. Ninetynine discovertebral junctions with Romanus lesions showed low signal intensity on T1-weighted and high signal on T2-weighted and TI-weighted postcontrast images at the vertebral corners consistent with oedematous hyperaemic inflammatory tissue. There were nine discovertebral junctions with similar MR findings but normal radiographs. Fifty-three discovertebral junctions showed syndesmophyte formation with increased signal intensity on both T1- and T2- weighted images with no contrast enhancement. Sixty-five discovenebral junctions showed a mixture of radiographic features and varied high and low signal changes at the venebral rim on MR imaging with rims of enhancement in the venebral body following contrast administration. Conclusion. Gd-DTPA MR imaging demonstrates a variable signal pattern and degree of contrast enhancement which may reflect the evolu- tionary stages of discovertebral enthesitis in ankylosing spondylitis. MR imaging may identify early erosive changes in radiographicallynormal venebra. The role of MR imaging needs funher investigation.	deu	Springer International	2000	1.01	Skeletal radiology	0.695	1.436
11156507	Online assessment of power transmission belt geometry by using laser triangulation and profile parameterisation	We present a method that enables an automated assessment of the geometrical dimensions of power transmission belts and the detection of surface defects and small deviations from the ideal shape that are difficult to detect with a visual inspection. The method is based on the acquisition of belt surface profiles using a laser triangulation and automated profile assessment based on a customdeveloped algorithm. The algorithm uses a novel approach to profile segmentation, featuring a template that defines the expected profile shape in advance and so, allows a faster implementation of the algorithm. It enables an automated calculation of the basic geometrical dimensions, which define the profile shape in the technical drawing and are important for online quality control in the production line. A macrolanguage was developed for a rapid and flexible definition of the mathematical operations used in the calculation of the profile's dimensions and thus, an adaptation to the requirements of a particular application. We demonstrate the use of the automatic belt profile geometry assessment on randomly chosen samples.	gbr	IFS Publications	2010	1.01	International journal, advanced manufacturing technology	1.068	1.019
11157526	On the local variation of the crack driving force in a double mismatched weld	A material inhomogeneity in the direction of crack extension causes a difference between the near-tip crack driving force, Jtip, and the nominally applied far-field crack driving force, Jfar. This difference can be quantified by a material inhomogeneity term, Cinh, which is evaluated by a post-processing procedure to a conventional finite element stress analysis. The magnitude of the material inhomogeneity term is evaluated for cracks in an inhomogeneous welded joint made of a high-strength low-alloy steel. Both a crack proceeding from the under-matched (UM) to the over-matched (OM) and from the OM to the UM weld metal are treated. The effects of the inhomogeneity of the different material parameters (modulus of elasticity, yield strength, and strain hardening exponent) on Cinh and Jtip are systematically studied. The results demonstrate that the material inhomogeneity term is primarily influenced by the inhomogeneity of the yield strength. A crack growing towards an OM/UM interface experiences an accelerated crack growth rate or a pop-in, an UM/OM interface leads to a reduced crack growth rate or a crack arrest. The application of global assessment methods of the mismatch effect which are included in the Engineering Treatment Model (ETM) or in the Structural Integrity Assessment Procedures for European Industry (SINTAP) is discussed.	usa	Pergamon Press.	2007	1.01	Engineering fracture mechanics	1.227	1.049
11158043	Modelling of grinding gap macro geometry and workpiece kinematics in throughfeed centreless grinding	The paper discusses the simulation of a throughfeed centreless grinding process in a virtual environment (VE). The developed simulations are based on an analytical grinding gap model describing the grinding gap macro geometry and workpiece kinematics. First of all, the model is embedded in a desktop application (Cegris), which facilitates regulating wheel truing and the determination of set-up variables, both of which yield an optimal grinding gap macro geometry in a reduced set-up time. Finally, the Cegris is ported to aCAVE (CAVE Automatic Virtual Environment) for an interactive visualisation of the process, an application used to train machine tool operators.	nld	Elsevier	2010	1.01	Journal of materials processing technology	1.567	1.019
1115967	Atherosclerosis in patients with analgesic nephropathy treated with haemodialysis	Accelerated atherosclerosis was reported to be associated with chronic analgesic consumption, but most studies were retrospective, and individual findings have almost never been controlled with regard to other atherosclerotic risk factors. Ten haemodialysis patients with analgesic nephropathy (group I) and 19 haemodialysis patients where renal failure was not caused by analgesic nephropathy (group II) were included in the study. All patients were female without diabetes. Using B-mode ultrasonography, we compared intima-media thickness (IMT) in the carotid arteries and plaque occurrence, and their thickness in group I with that in group II. The possible differences in atherosclerotic risk factors in both groups were also investigated. In group I, the average age was 60.2 years, and the average dialysis treatment was 55.7 months. In group II, the average age was 54.6 years, and the average duration of dialysis treatment was 50.4 months. We found no statistically significant difference in the age and duration of dialysis treatment between groups I and II. The IMT values of the carotid arteries (0.97 vs 0.78 mm; P = 0.027) were significantly higher in group I. More patients had plaques in group I (90 vs 57.9%), and the number of plaques (P = 0.037) and their thickness (P = 0.043) were significantly higher in this group. There was no statistically significant difference in the atherosclerotic risk factors between groups I and II. The results indicate that patients with analgesic nephropathy treated with haemodialysis showed advanced atherosclerosis compared with other haemodialysis patients, despite no difference being found in the atherosclerotic risk factors between these patients.	aus	Blackwell Science	2002	1.01	Nephrology.	0.244	1.661
11160091	Improved explicit integration in plasticity	The article presents a simple but efficient numerical scheme for the integration of non-linear constitutive equations, in which the principal reason for the inaccuracy of the classical explicit schemes, for example forward-Euler scheme, is effectively eliminated. In the newly developed explicit scheme, where there is no need for iteration, the implementation simplicity of the forward-Euler scheme and accuracy of the approach, which is using the backward-Euler scheme to integrate the constitutive equations, are successfully combined. Computational performance of the proposed next increment corrects error (NICE) integration scheme, particularly regarding the accuracy and the CPU time consumption, is first analysed on a case of complex loading of a material point. When comparing it to the forward-Euler, backward-Euler, trapezoidal and midpoint integration schemes, it turns out that because of its capability of a fast and relatively accurate integration of the constitutive equations, the NICE scheme is very convenient for the integration of constitutive models, where a direct solution technique is used to solve a boundary value problem. Although the deduction of the new integration scheme is general, its implementation for shell applications needs particular care. Namely, in order to satisfy the zero normal stress condition during the whole integration, a through-thickness strain increment has to be adequately chosen in each integration step. The NICE scheme, which was also implemented into ABAQUS/Explicit via User Material Subroutine (VUMAT)interface platform, has been additionally compared with the ABAQUS/Explicit default integration scheme (backward-Euler) and forward-Euler scheme. Two loading case-studies, namely the bending of a square plate and the stretching of a specimen including the onset of necking, are considered with two constitutive models - the von Mises and GTN material model being adopted. Generally, the NICE scheme has demonstrated to be advantageous in cases, where reasonable accuracy and very fast integration of the constitutive model is demanded, which is mostly the case in engineering computations with a direct solution method, for example explicit dynamics and metal forming process simulations.	gbr	Wiley	2010	1.01	International journal for numerical methods in engineering	1.925	0.826
11160347	NICE-an explicit numerical scheme for efficient integration of nonlinear constitutive equations	The paper presents a simple but efficient new numerical scheme for the integration of nonlinear constitutive equations. Although it can be used for the integration of a system of algebraic and differential equations in general, the scheme is primarily developed for use with the direct solution methods for solving boundary value problems, e.g. explicit dynamic analysis inABAQUS/Explicit. In the developed explicit scheme, where no iteration is required, the implementation simplicity of the forward-Euler scheme and the accuracy of the backward-Euler scheme are successfully combined. The properties of the proposed NICE scheme, which was also implemented into ABAQUS/Explicit via User Material Subroutine (VUMAT) interface platform, are compared with the properties of the classical forward-Euler scheme and backward-Euler scheme. For this purpose two highly nonlinear examples, with the von Mises and GTN material model considered, have been studied. The accuracy of the new scheme is demonstrated to be at least of the same level as experienced by the backward-Euler scheme, if we compare them on the condition of the same CPU time consumption. Besides, the simplicity of the NICE scheme, which is due to implementation similarity with the classical forward-Euler scheme, is its great Advantage.	nld	North-Holland	2009	1.01	Mathematics and computers in simulation	0.946	0.985
11161110	Chemometric characterisation of the quality of ground waters from different wells in Slovenia	The quality of ground water as a source of drinking water in Slovenia is regularly monitored. One of the monitoring programmes is performed on 5 wells for drinking water supply, 3 industrial wells and 2 ground water monitoring wells. Two hundred and fourteen samples of ground waters were analysed in the time 2003-2004. Samples were gathered from ten different sampling sites and physical chemical measurements were performed. The following 13 physical chemical parameters were regularly controlled: temperature, pH, conductivity, nitrate, AOX (adsorbable organic halogens), metals such as chromium, pesticides (desethyl atrazine, atrazine and 2,6-dichlorobenzamide), highly-volatile halogenated hydrocarbons (trichlorometane, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethene and 1,1,2-trichloroethene). For handling the results different chemometrics methods were employed, such as basic statistical methods for the determination of mean and median values, standard deviations, minimal and maximal values of measured parameters and their mutual correlation coefficients, cluster analysis (CA), the principal component analysis (PCA), the clustering method based on Kohonen neural network, and linear discriminant analysis (LDA). The study gives the opportunity to follow the quality of ground waters at different sampling sites within the defined time period. Monitoring of general pollution of ground waters and following measuring can be used to search the pollution source, to plan prevention measures and to protect from pollution, as well.	svn	Slovensko kemijsko društvo =Slovenian Chemical Society	2007	1.01	Acta chimica slovenica	1.093	2.086
11161622	Multivariate data analysis of natural mineral waters	Fifty samples of natural mineral waters from springs in Slovenia, Hungary, Germany, Czech Republic and further countries of former Yugoslavia have been analysed. The mass concentration of cations (Na+, K+, Ca2+, Mg2+, Fe2+, Mn2+, NH4+) and anions (F-, Cl-, I-, NO3-, SO4 2-, HCO3-), the spring temperature, pH, conductivity and carbon dioxide mass concentration have been measured using standard analytical methods. Appropriate statistical methods and different chemometric tools were used to evaluate the obtained data, namely, (i) descriptive statistics, (ii) principal component analysis (PCA), (iii) cluster analysis, and (iv) linear discriminant analysis (LDA). It was confirmed that Slovenian natural mineral water samples differ most from the German ones but are relatively similar to the Czech and Hungarian ones. Water samples from Hungary are similar to waters from the eastern part of Slovenia.	svn	Slovensko kemijsko društvo =Slovenian Chemical Society	2007	1.01	Acta chimica slovenica	1.093	2.086
11161817	Plurypotency of 17[beta]-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase from the filamentous fungus Cochliobolus lunatus	Cochliobolus lunatus 17B-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17B-HSD) is pluripotentfor several steroidal and nonsteroidal substrates. In the presence of NADPH the enzyme was found to reduce 3-keto groups of 4,5-dihydro steroids,20-keto groups, and most efficiently,17-keto groups of steroidal substrates. In addition, several quinones were accepted and found to be even better substrates as steroids due to their higher affinity for the enzyme-coenzyme complex and faster conversion of the enzyme-coenzyme-substratecomplex into the corresponding products. As suggestedby the competition studies quinones and 17-ketosteroids are convertedby the same active center of the enzyme. For all tested substrates, the equilibrium ordered mechanism was established with NADPH binding first to the enzyme. According to our knowledge, the investigated 17B-HSD is the first known fungal pluripotent enzyme of this type.	usa	Holden-Day.	2000	1.01	Steroids	1.831	3.06
11162073	Characterisation of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato strains isolated from patients with skin manifestations of Lyme borreliosis residing in Slovenia	Lyme borreliosis is the most prevalent tick-borne infection in Slovenia. Skin disorders are the most frequent clinical manifestations. The aim of the present study was to assess the phenotypic and genotypic diversity of a large number of human Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato isolates and to evaluate any association between the isolates and different clinical manifestations. All 103 strains tested were from patients suffering from the skin disorders of Lyme borreliosis. Skin biopsies, cerebrospinal fluid and blood samples from patients were inoculated into modified Kelly Pettenkofer medium. Protein profiles were determined by SDS-PAGE and species identification and plasmid profiles by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. Mlu I digestion profiles showed that 87 (84.5%) isolates belonged to B. afzelii, 15 (14.5%) to B. garinii and 1 (1%) to B. burgdorferi sensu stricto. The number of plasmids in each strain varied from three to seven, and the plasmid size ranged from 15 to 65 kb. Fourisolates of B. garinii possessed multiple large plasmids and four isolateshad a large plasmid dimer (three B. afzelii and one B. garinii). Isolates showed qualitative and quantitative differences in protein expression. The study found differences in the expression of OspB and OspC proteins between B. afzelii and B. garinii strains. OspB was expressed significantly more often by B. afzelii (78 of 87, 89.6%) than by B. garinii (4of 15, 26.6%) isolates, while OspC protein was expressed significantly more often by B. garinii (14 of 15, 93.3%) than by B. afzelii (51 of 87, 58.6%) isolates. In Slovenia, B. afzelii causes the majority of skin lesions. The isolates investigated showed plasmid and protein diversity. Heterogeneity of the spirochaetes may be important for virulence, and may have implications forpathogenesis and therapy of the infection. Differences in immunodominat proteins also have an important impact on serological testing and vaccine development.	gbr	Livingstone;Society for General Microbiology	2000	1.01	Journal of medical microbiology	1.625	2.225
1116265	Trajectories of change in depression severity during treatment with antidepressants	Background. Response and remission defined by cut-off values on the last observed depression severity score are commonly used as outcome criteria in clinical trials, but ignore the time course of symptomatic change and may lead to inefficient analyses. We explore alternative categorization of outcome by naturally occurring trajectories of symptom change. Method. Growth mixture models were applied to repeated measurements of depression severity in 807 participants with major depression treated for 12 weeks with escitalopram or nortriptyline in the part-randomized Genome-based Therapeutic Drugs for Depression study. Latent trajectory classes were validated as outcomes in drug efficacy comparison and pharmacogenetic analyses. Results. The final two-piece growth mixture model categorized participants into a majority (75%) following a gradual improvement trajectory and the remainder following a trajectory with rapid initial improvement. The rapid improvement trajectory was over-represented among nortriptyline-treated participants and showed an antidepressant-specific pattern of pharmacogenetic associations. In contrast, conventional response and remission favoured escitalopram and produced chance results in pharmacogenetic analyses. Controlling for drop-out reduced drug differences on response and remission but did not affect latent trajectory results. Conclusions. Latent trajectory mixture models capture heterogeneity in the development of clinical response after the initiation of antidepressants and provide an outcome that is distinct from traditional endpoint measures. It differentiates between antidepressants with different modes of action and is robust against bias due to differential discontinuation.	gbr	British Medical Assoc	2010	1.01	Psychological medicine	5.200	1.77
11163144	An algorithm for k-convex closure and an application	An algorithm for computing the k-convex closure of a subgraph relative to a given equivalence relation R among edges of a graph is given. For general graph and arbitrary relation R the time complexity is ?$O(qn^2+mn)$?, where n is the the number of vertices, m is the number of edges and q is the number of equivalence classes of R. A special case is an ?$O(mn)$? algorithm for the usual k-convexity. We also show that Cartesian graph bundles over triangle free bases can be recognized in ?$O(mn)$? time and that all representations of such graphs as Cartesian graph bundles can be found in ?$O(mn)$? time	gbr	Gordon and Breach Science Publishers	2001	1.01	International journal of computer mathematics	0.162	0.619
11163400	Differences in event-related and induced EEG patterns in the theta and alpha frequency bands related to human emotional intelligence	High (emotional intelligence scores (IEQ=120) and average emotional intelligent individuals (EIQ=89) were solving tasks from an emotional intelligence test while their electroencephalogram was recorded. Significant differences relating to emotional intelligence were observed in induced and event related band power in the theta (4.4-6.4 Hz), lower-2 alpha (8.4-10.4 Hz), and upper alpha band (10.4-12.4 Hz). High emotional intelligent individuals displayed less desynchronization in the upper alpha band, as well as more left hemispheric theta desynchronization. Further a significant positive correlation between the mean frequency and emotional intelligence was observed. The results are similar to those reported for verbal and performance components of general intelligence	nld	Elsevier/North Holland Publ. Co.	2001	1.03	Neuroscience letters	2.021	2.796
11163670	Event-driven current control structure for a three phase inverter	This paper discusses the functionality of a three-phase inverter from a discrete-event point of view. A recently developed vector-matrix recursive approach for the modeling of discrete event systems is applied for the design of a new, event-driven current control principle for a current controlled three phase inverter. The proposed event-driven current controller integrates traditionally separated current controller, and modulator. Transistor switching patterns are evaluated directly from the phase current errors and the voltage sector, and sequential switching among the transistor patterns is introduced to reduce switching frequency. Jn order to describe total functionality of a three phase inverter, the proposed modeling approach is further used for the design of steering and protection functions. The designed current controlled inverter is used for the speedlcurrent control of a permanent magnet synchronous mac hine. The presented experiment shows that the introduced recursive matrix based approach for the modeling of discrete event systems o.ffers a simple mapping procedure for rapid implementation of the designed control algorithms on the FPGA platform.	ita	Praise Worthy Prize	2007	1.01	International review of electrical engineering	0.570	1.193
11164438	Uncertainty of the result of TOC determination in water samples	The production of micrometric particles of Disperse Red 60 pigment was studied using two supercritical fluids based techniques: the supercritical antisolvent precipitation (SAS) and the supercritical assisted atomisation (SAA). We studied the influence of some process parameters on the final product: the variation of the dye concentration in the solvent using the SAS technique, and supercritical fluid/liquid solvent flow ratio, temperature and concentration in the liquid solution using SAA technique. These parameters allow the control of the particle size of the produced powders. Using SAS, we obtained Disperse Red 60 as spherical nano-particles with mean diameters ranging between 50 and 100 nm. Very long needle-like crystals were also obtained at some process conditions. Using SAA, quasi-spherical crystals with mean diameters ranging between 0.5 and 2.5 m were produced. Therefore, in the case of Disperse Red 60, the two processes demonstrate to be complementary: nanometric particles can be obtained using SAS, whereas micrometric particles are produced using SAA.	deu	Springer-Verlag	2007	1.01	Accreditation and quality assurance	0.717	1.034
11164694	Effects of biodiesel on emissions of a bus diesel engine	This paper discusses the influence of biodiesel on the injection, spray, and engine characteristics with the aim to reduce harmful emissions. The considered engine is a bus diesel engine with injection M system. The injection, fuel spray, and engine characteristics, obtained with biodiesel, are compared to those obtained with mineral diesel (D2) under various operating regimes. The considered fuel is neat biodiesel from rapeseed oil. Its density, viscosity, surface tension, and sound velocity are determined experimentally and compared to those of D2. The obtained results are used to analyze the most important injection, fuel spray, and engine characteristics. The injection characteristics are determined numerically under the operating regimes, corresponding to the 13 mode ESC test. The fuel spray is obtained experimentally under peak torque condition. Engine characteristics are determined experimentally under 13 mode ESC test conditions. The results indicate that, by using biodiesel, harmful emissions (NOx, CO, smoke and HC) can be reduced to some extent by adjusting the injection pump timing properly.	nld	Elsevier Applied Science	2008	1.01	Bioresource technology	4.453	1.329
1116521	Mobility and functional outcomes after femoral neck fracture surgery in elderly patients	Purpose. To find out whether patients with femoral neck fracture treated with hemiarthroplasty differ from those treated with internal fixation regarding functional outcome, walking ability, pain or short-term mortality. Method. Sixty-six patients aged 64 years or more with femoral neck fracture were included in a prospective non-randomised trial with two equal-sized groups recruited consecutively within each group. All patients were treated operatively and encouraged to pursue an active rehabilitation. They were reviewed at admission, before discharge and 3 months after surgery. Assessments included demographic data, length of hospitalisation, post-operative medical complications, activities of daily living, walking ability, pain and mortality. Results. There were no significant differences between the two groups in terms of age, gender, ability to walk, functional status or at admission. The patients treated with hemiarthroplasty had a longer total hospital stay due to longer waiting time to operation. They started to walk sooner after operation and walked better during hospitalisation. Their walking distance at discharge was longer; their improvement in functional independence, as measured by the Functional Independence Measure, was also higher, but this difference was not statistically significant. Observed mortality in the hemiarthroplasty group was lower. Conclusion. A longer follow-up would be necessary to determine whether the preferable outcomes of hemiarthroplasty persist in the long-term.	gbr	Taylor & Francis	2011	1.01	Disability and rehabilitation	1.498	1.201
11165462	Determination of major phenolic acids, phenolic diterpenes and triterpenes in Rosemary (Rosmarinus Officinalis L.) by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry	A gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric (GC-MS) method for the simultaneous identification and quantification of seven major phenolic and terpenic compounds in Rosmarinus officinalis L. was developed. The compounds were identified as trimethylsilyl (TMS) derivatives of phenolic acids (caffeic and rosmarinic acid), phenolic diterpene (carnosic acid), and pentacyclic triterpenes (ursolic, oleanolic, betulinic acid and betulin). These compounds have been identified by retention time and comparison of mass spectra. The procedure involves ultrasonic extraction using solvent mixture of tetrahydrofuran and ethanol. Extracts were fractionated by size exclusion chromatography (SEC) after purifying on graphitised carbon. The fraction with phenolic and terpenic compounds was derivatised prior to GC-MS analysis using N-methyl-N-trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide (MSTFA) as a derivatisation reagent. The derivatisation process was optimized regarding temperature and reaction time. The linearity of the method was tested in concentration range 4-25 mg L-1. The correlation coefficients (r2) were in the range of 0.997 to 0.999. The average recoveries for all compounds ranged from 80 to 82%. The GC-MS technique is specific and sensitive, and can be used for simultaneous identification and determination of a wide range of phenolic and terpenic compounds in different plants even at trace levels.	svn	Slovensko kemijsko društvo =Slovenian Chemical Society	2007	1.01	Acta chimica slovenica	1.093	2.086
11167003	Large deflections of nonlinearly elastic non-prismatic cantilever beams made from materials obeying the generalized Ludwick constitutive law	This paper studies large deflections of nonlinearly elastic cantilever beams made from materials obeying the generalized Ludwick constitutive law. An exactmoment-curvature formula which can be applied to study arbitrarily loaded and supported beams of rectangular cross-sections is developed. Several advantages of the generalized Ludwick's model are illustrated. Numerical examples considered in this materially and geometrically nonlinear analysis clearly indicate rich nonlinear behavior of the beams.	ita	Tamburini Editore SpA	2009	1.01	Meccanica	0.892	1.269
1116886	Distribution of Cd, Pb, Zn, Mo and S in juvenile and mature Brassica napus L. var. napus	The study was conducted at three locations in the Savinjska region of Slovenia, where soil is contaminated with heavy metals due to the zinc industry (Cinkarna Celje). In Ponikva the soil to a depth of 30 cm contains 0.8 mg kg-1 Cd, 32.2 mg kg-1 Pb and 86 mg Zn kg-1, in Medlog 1.4 mg kg-1 Cd, 37.4 mg kg-1 Pb and 115 mg kg-1 Zn and in Skofja vas 10.9 mg kg-1 Cd, 239.7 mgkg-1 Pb and 1356 mg kg-1 Zn. The pH at the selected sites was between 7.3 and 7.6. In the beginning of September 2006 two hybrids of Brassica napus L. var. napus, PR45 D01 and PR46 W31 suitable for production of biodiesel obtained from Pioneer Seeds Holding GmbH, were sown. After 96 days juvenile and after 277 days mature plants were collected. Parts of plants (root, shoot and seed) were separated and Cd, Pb, Zn, Mo and S determined by ultra-trace ICP-MS. We compared the uptake of Cd, Pb, Zn, Mo and S in different parts of juvenile and mature plants of the two different hybrids, TF (translocation factor), BAF (bioaccumulation factor) and PP (phytoextraction potential) were calculated. The mature hybrid PR46 W31 had higher shootžroot ratio and higher PP for metals (Cd, Pb and Zn) and lower PP for the micronutrient (Mo) and macronutrient (S) on the polluted site. The study demonstrated the potential use of oilseed rape on multiply polluted soils for production of 1st and 2nd generation biofuels. The potential restoration of degraded land could also disburden the use of agricultural land.	gbr	CRC Press	2011	1.01	International journal of phytoremediation	1.298	1.997
11170326	Potential control inside switch device using FEM and stochastic optimization algorithm	This paper describes the impact of selected insulation elements and the surrounding material, on the magnitude and distribution of electrical potential in a switch device. The procedure is based on finite element method numerical analysis and stochastic optimization algorithm of differential evolution (DE). The optimal selection ofmutually independent insuIation materials has an impact on the control of potential and, consequently, on dielectric strengths, both inside the bushing and in other switchgear elements. Two different methods are used for an extension of the multiobjective optimization of the problem. The entire modeling procedure also includes optimization of the bushing's geometrical shape.	usa	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2007	1.01	IEEE transactions on magnetics	0.959	0.927
11170582	3-D boundary element-finite element method for velocity-vorticity formulation of the Navier-Stokes equations	A numerical method for the solution of the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations was developed using an integral representation of the conservation equations. The velocity-vorticity formulation is employed, where the kinematics is given with the Poisson equation for the velocity vector, while the kinetics is represented with the vorticity transport equation. Based on computational aspects, resulting from CPU time and memory requirements of the boundary domain integral method, a combined approach to the solution of the set of governing equations is proposed. Kinematics is solved using boundary element method (BEM), while kinetics is solved using finite element method (FEM). Lid driven flow in a cubic cavity was considered to show the robustnessand versatility of this formulation. Results of Re=100,400,1000 show a good agreement with benchmark results.	gbr	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Engineering analysis with boundary elements	0.936	0.771
11170838	A noise robust feature extraction algorithm using joint wavelet packet subband decomposition and AR modeling of speech signals	This paper presents a noise robust feature extraction algorithm NRFE using joint wavelet packet decomposition (WPD) and autoregressive (AR) modeling of a speech signal. In opposition to the short time Fourier transform (STFT)-based time-frequency signal representation, wavelet packet decomposition can lead to better representation of non-stationary parts of the speech signal (e.g. consonants). The vowels are well described with an AR model as in LPC analysis. The proposed Root-Log compression scheme is used to perform the computation of the wavelet packet parameters. The separately extracted WPD and AR-based parameters are combined together and then transformed with the usage of linear discriminant analysis (LDA) to finally produce a lower dimensional output feature vector. The noise robustness is improved with the application of proposed wavelet-based denoising algorithm with a modified soft thresholding procedure and time-frequency adaptive threshold. The proposed voice activity detector based on a skewness-to-kurtosis ratio of the LPC residual signal is used to effectively perform a frame-dropping principle. The speech recognition results achieved on Aurora 2 and Aurora 3 databases show overall performance improvement of 44.7% and 48.2% relative to the baseline MFCC front-end, respectively.	nld	North-Holland	2007	1.01	Signal processing	0.737	0.927
1117142	Heavy metals and arsenic concentrations in ten fish species from the Šalek lakes (Slovenia)	The study, which measured the concentrations of Hg, Pb, Cd, Zn and As in various fish tissues (muscle, gill and liver) of 10 fish species (Abramis brama danubii, Alburnus alburnus alburnus, Barbus meridionalis petenyi, Carassius auratius gibelio, Cyprinus carpio, Lepomis gibossus, Leuciscius cephalus cephalus, Perca fluviatilis fluviatilis, Rutilus rutilus, Scardinus erythrophtlalmus erythrophtlalmus) collected in the Šalek lakes, is the first survey regarding metal concentrations in fish species with samples originatingfrom Slovene lakes, while only a limited number of such studies have been carried out in southeastern Europe. Since these lakes are situated in the close vicinity of the largest Slovene thermal power plant, the study provides an insight into the potential impact of increased levels of metals inthe environment as well as an estimate of the contamination of fish tissues with metals. Furthermore, it was possible to compare the results obtained withthose from other studies regarding metal levels in freshwater fish species. The mean metal concentrations of different tissues irrespective of species varied in the following ranges: Zn 4.31-199 mg/kg ww, Pb 0.01-0.48 mg/kg ww, As 0.02-0.44 mg/kg ww, Hg <0.01-0.31 mg/kg ww, Cd <0.01-0.19 mg/kg ww. In general, higher contents of Hg were found in muscles and livers than in gills and higher contents of As in gills and livers than in muscles, respectively. The accumulation of Pb and Zn was most pronounced in gills. The result obtained regarding metal concentrations in fish rvealed that the ecosystems of the Šalek lakes are not polluted with Hg and Pb, slightly loaded with As and Cd and moderatly polluted with Zn. In addition, the potential human health risk due to fish consumption was assessd. This showed that estimated weekly intakes for all metals were below provisional permissible tolerable weekly intakes determined by WHO/FAO. The consumption of fish from the Šalek lakes, therefore, does not pose a risk to human health.	nld	Reidel	2012	1.01	Environmental monitoring and assessment	1.400	1.997
11178006	The influence of an additional substance in the trenches surrounding the grounding grid's conductors on the grounding grid's performance	In this paper, we present how the finite.element method can be utilized to analyze the influence of an additional substance in the trenches surrounding the grounding grid's conductors on the grounding grid's performance. For this purpose, we modified the preliminarily existent FIELD_GS program code in such a way that the additional substance in the immediate vicinity along the grounding grid's conductors can be simulated. Different sou structures and various volumes of the additional substance in the soU have been analyzed to prove the suitability of surrounding the grounding grid's conductors in trenches with the additional substance.	usa	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2007	1.01	IEEE transactions on magnetics	0.959	0.927
11178262	Sylvie R - 3D Drape Tester - new system for measuring fabric drape	The newly developed measuring system Sylvie R 3D Drape Tester, used to determine the static fabric drape, is presented. As opposed to the comventional Cusik drpemeter, the measuring system described is based on storing the 3D geometrical properties of the draped sample form using photographs in the process. The photos and their processing are employed to reconstruct mathematically the geometrical shape, while the drape coefficient evaluation is based on the geometrical model, using two methods.	hrv	Hrvatski inženjerski savez tekstilaca	2006	1.01	Tekstil	0.085	0.597
11180377	Noninvasive characterisation of multiple ventricular events using electrocardiographic imaging	Distributions of epicardial potentials, calculated from body surface electrocardiograms (ECGs), were investigated to determine if they could enable detection of multiple sites of ventricular activity. An anatomical model of the human ventricular myocardium was used to simulate activation sequences initiated at nine different ventricular pairs of sites. From these sequences, body surface ECGs were simulated at 352 sites on the torso surface and then used to reconstruct epicardial potentials at 202 sites. The criterion for detection of dual, ventricular events was the presence of two distinct primary potential minima in the reconstructed epicardial potentials. The shortest distance between the two events in the right ventricle that resulted in the reconstruction of epicardial potential patterns, featuring two minima, was 27 mm; the distance between the two events in the left ventricle was 23 mm. When Gaussian white noise in the simulated body surface potentials was increased from 3 ?$\mu$?V to 15 ?$\mu$?V and 50 ?$\mu$?V, dual events become more difficult to distinguish. Findings indicate that calculated epicardial potentials provide useful visual information about the presence of multiple ventricular events that is not apparent in features of body surface ECGs, and could be particularly helpful an optimising mapping procedures during difficult or unsuccessful radiofrequency ablations of accessory pathways.	gbr	Peter Peregrinus	2001	1.01	Medical & biological engineering & computing	1.172	0.692
1118271	Cystic dystrophy of the duodenal wall in a heterotopic pancreas	Cystic dystrophy of the duodenal wall in heterotopic pancreas is a rare disease affecting younger men in particular. On account of its difficult diagnosis and nonspecific signs, it was first described in 1970. A 51-year-old male patient was admitted for clarification of several months of severe pain in the upper abdomen accompanied by weight-loss, and due to ultrasonically established suspicion of carcinoma in the head of the pancreas. Clinical examination and laboratory tests were nonsignificant. Barium meal and esophagogastroduodenoscopy revealed a severe deformation of the duodenum. Biopsy of the duodenal mucosa detected moderate inflammatory changes. Ultrasound examination showed cystic changes in the duodenal wall and in the vicinity of the head of the pancreas. Only with the aid of endoscopic ultrasound, could bizarre cystic changes in the submucosa of the duodenal wall be detected, which was also confirmed by computer tomography. The signs of disease are nonspecific. Duodenal biopsy also does not reveal its cause since the typical lesions lie deeper in the submucosa or muscularis propria. Cystic changes with fibrosis, pancreatic ducts and lobi without anatomic or vascular connection to the pancreas are found. The anomaly involves, above all, the stomach and duodenum. Prior to the introduction of imaging techniques such as endoscopic ultrasonography, computer tomography and nuclear magnetic resonance, the diagnosis could only be made by means of anoperative procedure. Treatment is primarily surgical; smaller cysts can be treated by endoscopic fenestration. Pharmacological treatment with somatostatin is rarely performed.	aut	Springer	2002	1.02	Wiener Klinische Wochenschrift	0.591	1.862
11183382	Immobilized lipase-mediated long-chain fatty acid esterification in dense carbon dioxide: bench-scale packed-bed reactor study	Long-chain fatty acid esters are useful functional molecules responding to therequirements of numerous fields of application in cosmetic, pharmaceutical and lubricant industry. In the present work, lipase-catalysed production of n-octyl oleate by esterification of oleic acid with 1- octanol in dense CO2, as reaction medium, was performed in bench-scale packed-bed bioreactor, in order to obtain suitable reaction performance data for up-scaling. Lipase fromRhizomucor miehei (Lipozyme RM IM) was used as the biocatalyst. The experiments were planned to elucidate the effect of several process parameters, such as pressure, temperature, CO2 and substrates flow rates. Pressure of 10MPa, temperature of 323.15 K, CO2 flow rate of 210 dm3/h and substrates flow rate of 18 cm3/h were predicted to be the optimum conditions: a maximum yield of about 93% was attained. Performing the enzymatic reaction in the continuously operating bioreactor, a long-term enzyme lifetime was observed and a decrease of the Lipozyme activity was not registered over 50 days. A comparison with experimental results obtained in batch-wise was also proposed. Operating at the optimum reaction conditions, higher ester yield than those obtained in batch-mode was detected. Supercritical carbon dioxide (SC-CO2) showed to be a potential medium for the n-octyl oleate biosynthesis for a large-scale production in continuous-mode.	nld	PRA Press	2007	1.01	The Journal of supercritical fluids	2.189	1.015
11183894	Lipase-catalyzed long-chain fatty ester synthesis in dense carbon dioxide: kinetics and thermodynamics	Catalytic synthesis of n-octyl oleate by esterification of free fatty acid (FFA) with 1-octanol over immobilized lipase from Rhizomucor miehei (Lipozyme RM IM) was successfully performed using dense carbon dioxide as reaction medium. Process conditions (pressure, temperature, stirrer speed, water concentration, substrates molar ratio and incubation time) were optimised performing experiments in a high-pressure batch stirred tank reactor (BSTR). Experiments were carried out in the operative pressure and temperature ranges 8-30MPa and 308.15-383.15 K, respectively. Pressure of 10MPa, temperature of 323.15 K, stirring rate of 300 rpm, fatty acid/alcohol concentration molar ratio 40/60, water concentration of 166.7 ?$\mu$? L/g reaction bulk, enzyme concentration of 25 mg/cm3 and incubation time of 5 h were found tobe the optimum reaction conditions. Operating at these conditions a maximum FFA conversion of 88% was attained. A comparison with reactions performed at atmospheric pressure in almost non-aqueous solvent-free medium and in n-hexane was also proposed. It resulted that CO2 expanded reaction mixture required lower enzyme concentrations, desired at commercial industrial scales,and enhanced the reaction kinetics with respect to the solvent-free system due to decrease of the interphase transport limitations. Higher fatty acid ester (FAE) concentration was also obtained in SC-CO2 when compared with those attained over n-hexane under identical reaction conditions.	nld	PRA Press	2007	1.01	The Journal of supercritical fluids	2.189	1.015
11184918	Dynamic optimization in supply chains	Production and stock optimization in supply chains is a complex problem because it determines the optimum quantity production in time. Due to their multileveld nature, those problems are mostly solved by different methods and models of dynamic programming. The problem discussed in this paper refers to the determination of optimum quantity of production and stocks within the supply chain in a certain period of time, as well as in each sub-interval of a period, but with the condition that the production and stock expenditure remains minimal and that the predetermined demand in every sub-interval and throughout the entire observation period remains satisfied.	hrv	Fakultet prometnih znanosti;Fakulteta za pomorstvo in promet;Universita degli studi di Trieste, Istituto per lo studio dei transporti nell'integrazione economica europea;Fakultet za saobraèaj i komunikacije;Fakulta prevadzky a ekonomiky dopravy a spojov;Dopravni fakulta Jana Pernera	2007	1.01	Promet	0.072	1.07
11191067	Development of a rotary magnetic refrigerator	A team of researchers have developed and built a prototype of a rotary magnetic refrigerator (MR). The principle of the operation of the presented magnetic refrigerator is based on the rotary movement of active magnetic regenerators (AMRs) with a magnetocaloric material and on the magnetic field generated by permanent magnets NdFeB. The first part of the paper presents the development and analysis of the structure for generating the magnetic field and the basic operational principle of the magnetic refrigerator concerned, and the second part gives a description of the development process for certain key elements of the complete magnetic refrigeration system.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2010	1.01	International journal of refrigeration	1.439	0.909
11193110	Pressure control in hydraulic systems with variable or constant pumps?	The paper deals with electrohydraulic supply systems with variable (adjustable( supply pressures. Two control concepts are used in practice: the pressure control concept using a variable pump and constant speed of the driving electric motor as the commonly used concept, and the pressure control concept with a constant pump and a speed-controlled electric motor as the alternative concept. The typical features and the applicability of both conceps, as well as their dynamic responses are studied in this work.	nld	Society for Experimental Stress Analysis	2007	1.01	Experimental techniques	0.400	0.579
11194329	The basis for presurgical orthopedic treatment of infants with unilateral complete cleft lip and palate	Objective: The purpose of this study was to describe the posttreatment morphology of the upper part of the oral cavity of complete unilateral cleft lip and palate (UCLP) patients and to compare it to noncleft contemporaries. Patients were treated according to a protocol designed to keep a proper resting posture of the oral cavity. Design: Retrospective study on dental casts. Setting: The study was performed at a maxillofacial center serving a popu- lation of 2 million inhabitants. Data for noncleft subjects are the result of a longitudinal study at the same lnstitution. Patients: Twenty-one Caucasian UCLP patients (13 males, 8 females) aged 5 to 9 years with no other congenital anomalies and no postoperative orthodontic treatment. Interventions: Each patient received 5 to 6 months of preoperative orthopedicswith a passive plate and external nonelastic strapping with definitive lip repair at age 5 to 7 months, soft palate repair at 11 to 15 months, and hard palate repair with mucoperiosteal closure of the alveolus at 30 to 36 months. Each patient was compared to the mean values obtained from a longitudinal study of a group of 25 healthy noncleft children of the same ethnic group (11 males,14 females). Results: Analysis of dental casts indicated that 16 patients had a width, depth, and length of the alveolar archin the range of the mean normal values minus two standard deviations. Their analyzed palates were flatter than normal. Six of 21 children had too small an alveolar arch for their ages, and they did not acquire a correct posture of the oral cavity. Conclusion: The results indicate that the upper part of the oral cavity of UCLP patients can reach the dimensions of noncleft contemporaries despite surgery.	usa	Decker Periodicals	2000	1.01	Cleft palate-craniofacial journal	0.718	1.146
11201302	Optimisation of needle penetration velocity using the link drive mechanism in a sewing machine	Needle movement in a standard lockstitch sewing machine is produced by a slider-crank mechanism. The needle moves in a vertical plane and penetrates the fabric on its way down. Friction between the needle and the fabric generates heat during the penetration phase. The heat causes severe problems during the sewing process, such as thread & fabric melting as well as residuesaround the needleæs eye. These cause thread or fabric damage and may interrupt the sewing process. One possibility of reducing heat generation is to reduce the needle penetration velocity. This is a function of the geometry of the sewing machineæs driving mechanism and the angular velocity of the mainshaft. Since friction is a function of needle penetration velocity, the heat generated is directly dependent on the configuration of the driving mechanism, as well as the sewing speed. The aim of this work is to introduce the possibility of replacing the slider-crank mechanism, which is typically used in sewing machines, with a link drive mechanism. With this type of mechanism we may be able to reduce the penetration velocity of the needle without any loss of sewing speed. The optimal geometry of the link drive is achieved using a non-linear optimisation procedure.	pol	Institute of Chemical Fibres	2007	1.01	Fibres & textiles in Eastern Europe	0.402	0.674
11202393	Binary coding of Kekulé structures of catacondensed benzenoid hydrocarbons	An algorithm is described by means of which the Kekulé structures of a catacondensed benzenoid molecule (with ?$h$? hexagons) are transformed into binary codes (of length ?$h$?). By this, computer-aided manipulations with, and memory-storage of Kekulé structures are much facilitated. Any Kekulé structure can easily be recovered from its binary code.	deu	Pergamon	2001	1.01	Computers & Chemistry	1.632	0.692
11202905	Geometry versus topology: overlapping spheres model corrected for angles	Recently, we have proposed the Overlapping Spheres (OS) Model as a way to obtain a plausible molecular graph ?$G'=G'(R)$? after a set of ?$n$? points ?$R$? in 3D-space is given. If for a given graph ?$G$? its respective 3D-drawing leads to a graph ?$G'$? identical to ?$G$?, i.e. if ?$G'(R)=G$?, the graph drawing algorithm is said to be self-consistent; otherwise is not self-consistent. The aim of a present paper is to improve the OS model by angles considerations. Sudh a model we call Overlapping Spheres with Angles (OSAN) Model. Two algorithms were developed within the OSAN model and their self-consistency was tested. The results obtained show that the OSAN model ensures a rather self-consistent and acceptable framework to reproduce to connectivity of molecules. Considering a group of graphs used in tests, a success rate of the OS model algorithm is 83% meanwhile a succes rate of the first OSAN algorithm reaches 95%.	deu	University of Kragujevac;Faculty of Science Kragujevac	2001	1.01	MATCH Communications in Mathematical and in Computer Chemistry	0.579	0.619
11203161	A polynomial algorithm for the strong Helly property	In this article we give a polynomial algorithm to recognize if any partial sub-hypergraph has the Helly property.	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Information processing letters	0.288	0.827
11204635	Ablative potential of the erbium-doped yttrium aluminium garnet laser and conventional handpieces	Objectives: To compare the ability of the Variable Square Pulse technology (VSP-technology)-based erbium-doped yttrium aluminium garnet (Er:YAG) laser working in maximum speed (MAX) mode (1000mJ, 300 s, 20Hy) and the high-speed handpiece to ablate enamel, to compare the ability of for the VSP-technology-based Er:YAG laser working in MAX mode and the low-speed handpiece to ablate dentin, and to analyze in vitro effects of Er:YAG ablation of enamel and dentine surfaces using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Background Data: A VSP-technology-based Er:YAG laser operating in MAX mode should be appropriate for achieving the maximum ablating speed in hard dental tissues. Materials and Methods: The experiment was conducted on extracted, cleaned, sterilized human molar teeth. Cavity preparations were made in hard dental tissues using the VSP-technology Er:YAG laser in MAX mode,in enamel using the high-speed handpiece, and in dentin using the low-speed handpiece at different time intervals. A laser triangulation profilometer was used to determine cavity volumes. The cavity surfaces of five specimens were examined using SEM. Results: The Er:YAG laser removed a volume of enamel that was 3.3 times as large as that removed by the high-speedhandpiece in the same period of time. In dentin, the Er:YAG laser removed 8 to 18 times as much volume as the steel bur in the same period of time. The Er:YAG ablation rate in dentin was faster than in enamel. SEM of laser prepared cavities showed a well-defined surface, free of the smear layer. Conclusions: The VSP-technology-based Er:YAG laser, working in MAX mode, is more efficient than mechanical drills for enamel and dentin ablation.	usa	Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.	2009	1.01	Photomedicine and laser surgery	1.756	1.593
11207190	An algorithm for polygon clipping, and for determining polygon intersections and unions	This paper introduces a universal algorithm for polygon cIipping, wich is a frequent operation in GIS. In the proposed solution, the cIipping polygons can be concave and may include holes. This algorithm is based on so-called entry/exit intersection point property, which has to be explicitly determined only at the first calculated intersection point. It uses a simple but efficient data structure based on a single-linked list. Boolean union and the difference between input polygons can also be determined after small modifications. This algorithm can easily be adapted to Boolean operations between regions composed of polygon sets.	gbr	Pergamon Press	2007	1.01	Computers & Geosciences	0.893	1.122
11207707	Numerical simulation of stress relieving of an austenite stainless steel	An approach to numerical simulation of the annealing process with stress relieving is presented in the paper. For austenite stainless steel 316L (AISI), which exhibits no phase transformation from the melting point to room temperature, a viscous-elastic-plastic constitutive model is elaborated. First, from given experimental data the respective mechanical material parameters as a function of temperature are numerically identified by an inverse procedure. Then, the adequacy of the adopted model and identified material parameters is proven by a numerical simulation of stress relieving in two technological cases: (i) two-stage deep drawing with intermediate stress annealing and, (ii) simplified welding process followed by post weld heat treatment. In both cases the obtained residual stress state reduction is found to be in good agreement with the empirical experience and data provided from literature.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11207944	Preliminary results of the scale of self-perception for pre-school children (LSPO)	The author describes the characteristic features of the child's self-perception with special emphasis on the pre-school period. She also mentions the stablished methods of measuring the child's self-perception. She points out that in creating the instruments for measuring self-perception of younger children, it is necessary to take into account some of their developmental psychological characteristic, such as short-span attention, inconsistency in their answers, tendency to give socially acceptable answers, etc. The author presents the Scale of self-perception for pre-school children (LSPO) which she herself developed on the basis of her findings and on the basis of the experience of other authors in the forming of psychological instruments of this type. The scale was tested in a research which involved 214 children attending kindergarten (they are 4 and 5 years old). The purpose of the study is to investigate the psychometric characteristics of LSPO. A factor analytical check of the data only partly confirmed that the a priori dimensions had been reliably measured. That is why in further analyses the author preferred to account for dimensions obtained on the basis of factor analysis. It was established that the psychometric characteristics of the scale were adequate. Replication studies using clinical groups and samples from different cultures will be needed to assess a possible generalization of our results	svk	Vydavatelstvo SAV	2001	1.01	Studia psychologica	0.065	0.984
1120881	Some physico-chemical properties of doxazosin mesylate polymorphic forms and its amorphous state	Seven polymorphic modifications of doxazosin mesylate, designed as forms A,D,F,G,H,I, and the amorphous state were studied by thermal methods (TG and DSC), temperature resolved X-ray powder diffractometry, hot stage and scanningelectron microscopy and by fast cooling of the melt in the DSC.Polymorhisms A and F were found to be stable in the temperature range from room temperature to their melting points at 277.9 and 276,5C respectively.Form G, which melts at 27.8C, was found to be hygroscopic. Polymorph D undergoes irreversible solid-liquid-solid phase transition at 235.5C to polymorph I which melt at 274.9Form H, which melts at 258.0C was found to be unstable at high temperatures.DSC examination revealed that form H is irreversibly transformed to polymorph F during heating above the temperature of about 240C.The amorphous state was found to be stable at room temperature but when heating above the glass transition (Tg=144.1C) it crystallizes at 221.6C, what leads into a mixture of polymorphic forms. The new polymorphic form designed as E was identified in the mixture. The polymorph E is converted by heating to the more stable form F. The solubilities at 25C for forms A, and F in methanol are 3.5 and 7.7mgL-1 and in water they are 3.8 and 6.2mgL-1, respectively.	nld	Kluwer;Akadémiai Kiadó	2002	1.01	Journal of thermal analysis and calorimetry	1.094	1.562
11209689	Platten- und Schraubenosteo- synthese bei Femurschaftfakturen: Retrospektive Studie von 500 Femurschaftfrakturen	The authors collected 500 cases of breaks of the thighbone shaft which were treated using osteosynthesis with crews, beetwen 1st January 1992 and 31st of December 1996 at the department for traumatology of the Klinièni center hospital in Ljubljana. Most patients were male (70,6 %), the average age was 36.6 years and the majority of patients had been injured in traffic accidents.In 50% of cases, only the thighbone was broken, the rest had sufferred multiple injuries, or were polytraumatised. Their stay in hospital averaged 17 days, while the average time to union was 21 weeks. In most cases (85%), treatment proceeded with no complications. Chronical post-traumatic osteitis occured in 9 of the patients with open breaks (1.8%), and only in 2 patients (0.4%) with closed breaks, which is within the limits of tolerance. With respect to our experience and results with osteosynthesis with plates andscrews in the thighbone shaft, we belive that the mentioned meethod is goodand gives results which are comparable to those achived using other methods.	deu	Springer	2000	1.01	Der Unfallchirurg	0.496	1.146
11211481	Fuxiana yangi g.n., sp.n. (Crustacea: Amphipoda), a ""baikaloid"" amphipod from the depths of Fuxian Hu, an ancient lake in the karst of Yunnan, China	The first search for endemic invertebrate fauna in the lesser-known ancient lake Fuxian Hu revealed a depths inhabiting amphipod. Fuxiana yangi g.n., sp.n. is a ca. 2-3 mm long, stout, gammaroidean amphipod inclined to develop lateral protuberances. Taxonomically, the animal is a double enigma. (1) In spite of great polymorphism in its superficial trunk morphology - smooth, witha pair of horns, with pairs of lobes - the strong resemblance in appendagemorphology speaks for the conspecificity of four specimens. (2) In spite of the absence of the most striking character - peg-shaped palmar spines- the shape of female gnathopods and some other characters speak for itsphylogenetic relation to the north Pacific anisogammarid stock rather than to original (probably) Tethyan gammarid (s.str.) stock that reportedly gave rise to the rich amphipod flock of species and genera in Bajkalskoe Ozero (Lake Baikal). Morphologically, Fuxiana is convergent with many phylogenetically unrelated stocks of ancient lake amphipods. Biologically, it is a K-strategist with a small number of large eggs. It is accompanied by a very scarce fauna in the lake's depths. A small endemic flock of anisogammaridspecies inhabits the richer shallows.	deu	E. Schweizerbart'sche Verlagsbuchhandlung	2000	1.01	Archiv für Hydrobiologie	1.072	0.893
11211542	Investigation of crack propagation scatter in a gear tooth's root	This paper describes the problem of determining crack initiation location and its influence on crack propagation in a gear tooth's root. Three different load positions on the gear tooth's flank were considered for this investigation of crack initiation and propagation. A special test device was used for the single tooth test. It can be concluded from the measurements thata crack can be initiated at very different locations in a tooth's root and then propagate along its own paths. A numerical investigation into a crack initiation's position and its influences on its propagation were carried out within the framework of linear fracture mechanics. The influence of a tooth's load position, the geometry of the tooth's root, and the influence of nonparallel load distribution on the tooth's flank were considered when investigating the crack initiation's position. Results show that linear fracture mechanics can be used for determining crack propagation, if better initial conditions for crack initiation are considered.	usa	Pergamon Press.	2008	1.01	Engineering fracture mechanics	1.713	1.335
11216601	Systemic infection with potato virus YNTN alters the structure and activity ofshoot apical meristem in a susceptible potato cultivar	Stem nodes of the potato virus YNTN (PVYNTN) susceptible potato cultivar (Solanum tuberosum cv. Igor) were studied to investigate whether alterations in shoot morphology caused by infection with PVYNTN are related to changes in structure and activity of the shoot apical meristem. The PVYNTN causes severe disease symptoms known as the potato tuber necrotic ringspot disease (PTNRD) in susceptible potato plants grown in the field. Although in stem node culturethe symptoms are mildly expressed, in systemically PVYNTN- infected plants the shoot height stem diameter, number of leaves and the total leaf area were lower than in the healthy control plants at day 18 and 35 of culture. Histological analysis of the longitudinal sections of the shoot tip revealed that the infected plants had smaller shoot apical meristems due primarily to a lower cell number in different meristem zones. One of the most affected zones of the apical shoot meristem was the peripheral zone, the region in which leaf primordia are induced. The data is consistent in showing that the infection of potato plants with PVYNTN leads to alterations in the shoot apical meristem structure and mitotic activity. These changes are, in turn, reflected in altered overall morphology of the infected plant.	gbr	Academic Press	2000	1.01	Physiological and molecular plant pathology	1.970	1.36
11217369	Lysine 77 is a key residue in aggregation of eguinatoxin II, a pore-forming txin from sea anemone Actinia equina	Among eighteen point mutants of equinatoxin II produced in E. coli, containinga single cystein substitution at variable position, EqtIIK77C was chosen for its peculiar properties. It was almost 100 times less hemolytic than the wild-type, but its hemolytic activity could be restored by chemical modification of the thiol group, provided that a positive charge was reintroduced. This indicates that a positive charge at this position is necessary for toxin activity. The mutant formed larger pores as compared to the wild type, but displayed the same cation selectivity. The pores reverted to normal size upon reintroduction of the positive charge. The conformation ofEqtIIK77C and its binding to lipid membranes, either vesicles or red blood cells, was almost normal. However the kinetics of calcein release from lipid vesicles was substantially slower than that of the wild-type. Taken together with the different size of the pore formed, this is an indication that mutation of Lys77 - Cys influences the normal development of the aggregate which is required for assembling the functional pore.	usa	Springer	2000	1.01	The journal of membrane biology	2.973	2.347
11217625	Structure-function studies of tryptophan mutants of equinatoxin II, a sea aneone pore-forming protein	Equinatoxin II (EqtII) is a eukaryotic cytolytic toxin that avidly creates pores in natural and model lipid membranes. It contains five tryptophan residues in three diflerent regions of the molecule. In order to study its interaction with the lipid membranes, three tryptophan mutants, EqtII Trp45, EqtII Trp116/117 and EqtII Trp149, were prepared in an Escherichia coli expression system (here, the tryptophan mutants are classified according to the position of the remaining tryptophan residue(s) in each mutated protein). They all possess a single intrinsic fluoresant centre. All mutants were less haemolytically active than the wild-type, although the mechanism of erythrocyte damage was the same. EqtII Trp116/117 resembles the wild-type in terms of its secondary structure content, as determined from Fourier-transforminfrared (FTIR) spectra and its fluorescent properties. Tryptophans at these two positions are buried within the hydrophobic interior of the protein, and are transferred to the lipid phase during the interaction with the lipid membrane. The secondary structure of the other two mutants, EqtII Trp45 and EqtII Trp149, was altered to a certain extent. EqtII Trp149 was the most dissimilar from the wild-type, displaying a higher content of random-coil structure. It also retained the lowest number of nitrogen-bound protons after exchange with 2H2O, which might indicate a reduced compactness of the molecule. Tryptophans in EqtII Trp45 and EqtII Trp149 were more exposedto water, and also remained as such in the membrane-bound form.	gbr	Biochemical Society	2000	1.01	Biochemical journal	4.280	3.06
11217881	A common motif in proparts of cnidarian toxins and nematocyst collagens and its putative role	In Cnidarians, cnidoblast cells contain organelles called cnidocysts, which are believed to be the product of an extremely complex regulated secretory pathway. When matured, these stinging organelles are capable of storing and delivering toxins. We hypothesized that translated nematocyst proteins might comprise specific sequences serving as signals in sorting to the organelle. A sodium channel neurotoxin from the sea anemone Actinia equina was cloned and the toxin precursor sequence was compared to those of nematocyst collagens, pore-forming toxins and ion channel neurotoxins. It was found that all the analyzed sequences possess a highly conserved stretch of nine amino acid residues ending with Lys-Arg N-terminally of the mature region.	nld	Elsevier	2000	1.01	Biochimica et biophysica acta	1.399	2.504
11221593	Solving the d and [overline partial] -equations in thin tubes and applications to mappings	We construct a family of integral kernels for solving the ?$\overline{\partial}$?-equation with ?${\cal C}^k$? and Hölder estimates in thin tubes around totally real submanifolds in ?$\Cc^n$? (theorems 1.1 and 3.1). Combining this with the proof of a theorem of Serre we solve the ?$d$?-equation with estimates for holomorphic forms in such tubes (theorem 5.1). We apply these techniques and a method of Moser to approximate ?${\cal C}^k$?-diffeomophisms between totally real submanifolds in ?$\Cc^n$? in the ?${\cal C}^k$?-topology by biholomorphic mappings in tubes, by unimodular and symplectic biholomorphic mappings, and by automorphisms of ?$\Cc^n$?.	usa	University of Michigan Press	2001	1.01	Michigan mathematical journal	0.252	0.48
11223323	The ionization length in plasmas with finite temperature ion sources	The ionization length is an important quantity which up to now has been precisely determined only in plasmas which assume that the ions are born at rest, i.e., in discharges known as cold ion-source plasmas. Presented here are the results of our calculations of the ionization lengths in plasmas with an arbitrary ion source temperature. Harrison and Thompson (H&T) [Proc. Phys. Soc. 74, 145 (1959)] found the values of this quantity for the cases of several ion strength potential profiles in the well-known Tonks-Langmuir [Phys. Rev. 34, 876 (1929)] discharge, which is characterized by cold ion temperature. This scenario is also known as the singular ion-source discharge. The H&T analytic result covers cases of ion sources proportional to exp() with the normalized plasma potential and =0,1,2 values, which correspond to particular physical scenarios. Many years following H&T's work, Bissell and Johnson (B&J) [Phys. Fluids 30, 779 (1987)] developed a model with the so-called warm ion-source temperature, i.e., regular ion source, under B&J's particular assumption that the ionization strength is proportional to the local electron density. However, it appears that B&J were not interested in determining the ionization length at all. The importance of this quantity to theoretical modeling was recognized by Riemann, who recently answered all the questions of the most advanced up-to-date plasma-sheath boundary theory with cold ions [K.-U. Riemann, Phys. Plasmas 13, 063508 (2006)] but still without the stiff warm ion-source case solution, which is highly resistant to solution via anz available analytic method. The present article is an extension of H&T's results obtained for a single point only withion source temperature Tn=0 to arbitrary finite ion source temperatures. The approach applied in this work is based on the method recently developed by Kos et al.	usa	American Institute of Physics	2009	1.01	Physics of plasmas	2.475	1.922
11223579	High-speed measurement of foot shape based on multiple-laser-plane triangulation	Optical three-dimensional shape measurement of live objects is becoming an important developing and research tool because of its nonintrusive nature and high measuring speed. The current methods are reaching truly high speed in one view configuration, but in the case of the entire object shape measurement, they are limited due to mutual interference between multiple measuring modules. The proposed method overcomes this limitation by using a laser multiple-line triangulation technique, where each of several measuring modules uses a unique laser wavelength. The measuring modules are positioned so that the entire surface of the foot is digitized. This prevents unwanted overlapping between adjacent light patterns. The calibration procedure for each measuring module and for the entire system is based on measurements of the surface of a reference object. The system parameters are determined using an iterative optimization algorithm. The precision of the system is better than 0.3 mm. The system is capable of measuring objects in motion. The results of the shape of a foot rising on its toes are given as an example.	int	Society of Photo-optical Instrumentation Engineers	2009	1.01	Optical engineering	0.553	1.506
1122696	Phenotypic and genetic data supporting reclassification of Butyrivibrio fibrisoèvens isolates	Among 55 Butyrivirio fibrisolvens strains fiveribotypes of B. fibrisolvens were described on the basis of RFLP profiles of 16S rDNA regions obtained with restriction endonuclease HaeIII. In the phylogenetic tree, these ribotypes were located in the XIVa cluster of Gram-positive bacteria. Phenotypic differences of selected ribotype groups became the basis for further reclassification of B. fibrisolvens.	cze	Springer	2001	1.01	Folia microbiologica	0.776	1.706
11227670	Pitting formation due to surface and subsurface initiated fatigue crack growth in contacting mechanical elements	A computational model for simulation of surface and subsurface initiated fatigue crack growth due to contact loading is presented. The model is based on fracture mechanics theory where the required materials properties are obtained from common fatigue tests. For computational simulations an equivalent model of two contacting cylinders is used instead of simulating theactual contact of mechanical elements. The discretised model with the initial crack on or under the surface is then subjected to normal contact pressure, which takes into account the EHD-lubrication conditions, and tangential loading due to friction between contacting surfaces. The model considers also the moving contact of mechanical elements and for the surface initiated crack also the fluid trapped in the crack. The virtual crack extension method, implemented in the finite element method is then used for simulating the fatigue crack growth from the initial crack up to the formationof the surface pit. The numerical results correspond well with available experimental data. The described model can be used for simulation ofpitting phenomenon of contacting mechanical elements like gears, bearings, wheels, etc.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Wear	1.395	0.706
11227675	Application of optimization techniques to determine parameters of the Vibe combustion model	The capability of the optimization algorithms employed for tuning parameters of the Vibe combustion model included in 1-D thermodynamic engine cycle simulation tool AVL BOOST is analyzed while simulating high pressure phase of the in-cylinder process. The objective of the analysis includes the ability check of the optimization methods to determine the parameters of the Vibe combustion model within the tolerance range needed to set up a high fidelity model and to reach accuracy threshold of the commonly applied analytic approach for determining combustion parameters. The employed method presents an influence of different merit functions and constraints on the accuracy of the results and proposes the methodology for their quality analzsis. It can be concluded that the accuracy of the results calculated by combustion parameters determined by the optimization techniques reaches accuracy of the results calculated by a special analytically based software tool.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11227931	High pressure cooling in the machining of hard-to-machine materials	This paper investigates the application of high-pressure cooling (HPC) assistance in the rough turning of two different hard-to-machine materials, namely hard-chromed and surface hardened C45E and Inconel 718 with coated carbide tools. The region of operability - technology windows, which sets the boundaries of the process parameters, has been experimentally determined using the tool-material pair (TMP) methodology. The capabilities of different hard turning procedures are compared by means of chip breakability, cooling efficiencz, temperatures in cutting yone, tool wear and cutting forces. All machining experiments were performed under conventional cutting speeds.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11228187	The issue of Strouhal number definition in cavitating flow	In the past years the Strouhal number has been used to define the nature of cavitation cloud shedding in many studies. In particular, it was adopted as an indicator of a simulation agreement to the experiment. The problem is that there are many interpretations of the parameters that are included in its definition, which leads to a confusion and, as this study shows, to its uselessness. Literature was surveyed and Strouhal numbers with different definitions for several well-defined experiments were calculated. The span of the results exceeded one order of magnitude. The results are discussed and finally, a proposal for a unification of the definition of the Strouhal numberis given.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
1122952	Reliable identification of Prevotella and Butyrivibrio spp. from rumen by fatty acid methyl ester profiles	Data for bacterial identification were provided by culturing anaerobe bacteria under standardized conditions followed by extraction and methylation of cellular long-chain fatty acids and gas chromatographic analysis. The databases of fatty acid methyl ester (FAMEs) profiles for two predominant ruminal genera, Prevotella and Butyrivibrio, were created. Major long-chain cellular acids found in the 23 analyzed Prevotella strains were 15:0 (anteiso), 15:0 (iso) and 16:0. The strains of Prevotella could be well identified on species by the characteristic rations among major fatty acids and by acids unique fatty for each species. The 45 Butyrivibrio strains were grouped into 4 major and 2 minor groups according to FAMEs profiles. the major fatty acids for the bulk of the Butyrivibrio strains were 14:, 15:1, 16:0and 16:0(iso). This groups corresponded to those based on 16SrDNA sequences.	cze	Springer	2001	1.01	Folia microbiologica	0.776	1.706
11230553	Classifying arc-transitive circulants of square-free order	A circulant is a Cayley graph of a cyclic group. Arc-transitive circulants of square-free order are classified. It is shown that an arc-transitive circulant ?$\Gamma$? of square-free order ?$n$? is one of the following: the lexicographic product ?$\Sigma [{\overline K}_b]$?, or the deleted lexicographic ?$\Sigma [{\overline K}_b]-b\Sigma$?, where ?$n=bm$? and ?$\Sigma$? is an arc-transitive circulant, or ?$\Gamma$? is a normal circulant, that is, ?${\rm Aut}\Gamma$? has a normal regular cyclic subgroup.	usa	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2001	1.01	Journal of algebraic combinatorics	0.418	0.48
1123208	Multiple endoxylanases of Butyrivibrio sp.	Butyrivibrio sp. Mz 5 with a high xylanolytic activity was isolated. Four major xylanases were detected in the cell-associated fraction using the zymogram technique. The xylanolytic activity was inducible with the oat spelts xylan; two endoxylanases (51 and 145 kDa) were formed constitutively. The bulk of the xylanolytic activity was cell-bound and growth-phase dependent; the maximum activity in the cell-associated fraction was achieved after 16 h of incubation. The highest xylanolytic activity was determined in a medium with 0.54% oat spelts xylan. Under optimum conditions (the highest xylanases (51 and 58 kDa) were isolated by anion exchange chromatography on CIM DEAE 8 tubes attached to a MPLC system, and gel filtration.	cze	Springer	2001	1.01	Folia microbiologica	0.776	1.706
11237910	Aryl acrylate porous functional polymer supports from water-in-oil-in-water multiple emulsions	Porous functional polymer supports are a class of material of wide interest due to the possibility of immobilising reactive species. A simplified procedure was applied for the preparation of porous polymer supports using a water-in-oil-in-water multiple emulsion. The primary emulsion was a high internal phase emulsion, having a volume fraction of water phase up to 95%. Two reactive acrylates, namely 4-nitrophenyl acrylate and 2,4,6-trichlorophenyl acrylate, were (separately) incorporated in the oil phase in order to obtain porous reactive polymer supports. Both acrylates were crosslinked with either divinylbenzene or ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, and beads of size ca 60 m were obtained after the polymerisation of droplets suspended into the secondary aqueous phase. In the case of 4-nitrophenyl acrylate and divinylbenzene as a crosslinker, particles with a star shape, the core being ca 60 m in diameter and the arms ca 180 m in length, were obtained. The polymers were functionalised with morpholine, tris(2-aminoethyl)amine, piperidine or piperazine yielding supports with loadings of reactive groups of between 2.6 and 6.6 mmol g-1. The results show that multiple emulsions can be precursors for porous polymer preparation.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2007	1.01	Polymer international	1.557	1.528
11239963	The role of cryogenics in machining processes	The purpose of this work is to present some guidelines in the sustainable machining processes, using cryogenic conditions and gaining higher performances, lower environmental and health influences, increased safety, etc. The study presents the details about cryogenic fluids and their use in machining processes as an alternative to oil-based emulsions. The details of liquid nitrogen and the ways of their application in the machining processes, known as cryogenic machining process, are given. The research is upgraded with experimental case study on high temperature alloy machining - tungsten, and so presenting an important scientific and sustainability contribution in production processes. Experimental and analytical results are proving that the cryogenic machining technology has a high potential to cut costs and improve competitiveness, by reducing resource consumption and creating less waste and have less of an environmental and social impact, fulfilling the sustainability pillars: economical, social and environmental one, over conventional machining processes.	hrv	Strojarski fakultet;Elektrotehnièki fakultet;Graðevinski fakultet	2009	1.01	Tehnièki vjesnik	0.083	0.826
11240921	Chromosomes 7,17 polysomies and overexpression of epidermal growth factor receptor and p53 protein in epithelial hyperplastic laryngeal lesions	Purpose:To visualize directly a sequence of genetic changes underlying the entire spectrum of epithelial hyperplastic laryngeal lesions (EHLL) and laryngeal cancer by the use of non-isotopic in situ hybridization (ISH) for chromosomes 7 and 17 in correlation with overexpression of p53 protein and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). The specific aim was to compare the results and prognostic significance between the two types of EHLL: isolated, mainly atypical hyperplasia or risky epithelium, and EHLL associated with squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Patients and Methods: 59 tissue specimens of EHLL obtained from 34 patients, graded according to the Ljubljana classification into simple (SH), abnormal (AbH) and atypical hyperplasia (AtH), and carcinoma in situ (CIS) were included in the study. Non-fluorescentISH for chromosomes 7 and 17 was performed by biotinylated a-satellite DNA probes. Immunohistochemical staining for EGFR and p53 protein was analyzed on the same tissue samples. Results: Polysomy for both chromosomes increased in correlation with progressive grades of EHLL. The mostimportant finding was the statistically significant difference in chromosome copy numbers between the isolated AtH and AtH associated with SCC. Overexpression of EGFR and p53 protein was found in 61 (36/59) and 52% (31/59)of cases, respectively. The immunoreactivity for both markers increasedwith the grade of lesions, but the staining pattern was not so uniform in isolated EHLL. On the other hand, the immunoreactivity was expressed more constantly in EHLL adjacent to SCC. Conclusions: Numerical changes in chromosomes 7 and 17 might be associated with an upregulation of EGFR and p53 genes, and could contribute to critical events in laryngeal carcinogenesis. (Abstract truncated at 2000 characters.)	che	S. Karger AG	2000	1.01	Oncology	2.584	2.568
11241689	Xerotolerant mycobiota from high altitude Anapurna soil, Nepal	Xerophilic and xerotolerant microfungi were isolated from soil samples collected in Anapurna Mountains, Nepal, at altitudes from 3000 to 5400 m. The total numbers and proportions of xerotolerant and psychrophilic strains in comparison with mesophilic mycobiota were determined by using different enumeration, selective media and four isolation methods. The most extreme xerophilic fungi were taxonomically identified as belonging to the genera Eurotium and Aspergillus. The low water activity of the soil due to dry climate and frequent binding of water in ice crystals favors a high proportionof xerotolerant fungal species. The correlation between xerotolerantand psychrophilic fungi was observed.	nld	Elsevier	2000	1.01	FEMS microbiology letters	1.615	2.225
11241755	Cold storage with ice slurries	The storage of cold with ice slurries - a special type of thermally multi-functional fluids or phase change slurries (PCS) - is discussed. At first an example of a calculation of a thermal energy storage tank in an ice slurry system with a peak load demand is presented. Then a new concept of ice slurry storage without mixing is introduced. It leads to ice particle stratification and front propagation in the storage vessel. The stratification of ice particles in ice slurry is theoretically described by multi-component multi-phase fluid dynamics. The resulting stratification process is calculated and front propagation times are compared with experimental results; they compare fairly well.	gbr	Wiley-Interscience.	2008	1.01	International journal of energy research	1.016	0.803
11241945	Transient and permanent fusion of vesicles in Zea mays coleoptile protoplastsmeasured in the cell-attached configuration	Exocytosis in protoplasts from Zea mays L. coleoptiles was studied using patch-clamp techniques. Fusion of individual vesicles with the plasma membranewas monitored as a step increase of the membrane capacitance (Cm). Vesicle fusion was observed as (i) An irreversible step increase in Cm. (ii) Occasionally, irreversible Cm, steps were preceded by transient changes in Cm,suggesting that the electrical connection between the vesicle with the plasma membrane opens and closes reversibly before full connection is achieved. (iii) Most frequently, however, stepwise transient changes in Cm didnot lead to an irreversible Cm step. Within one patch of membrane capacitance steps due to transient and irreversible fusions were of similar amplitude. This suggests that the exocytosis events do not result from the fusion of vesicles with different sizes but are due to kinetically different states in a fusion process of the same vesicle type. The dwell time histogram of the transient fusion events peaked at about 100 msec. Fusion can be described with a circular three-state model for the fusion process of two fused states and one nonfused state. It predicts that energy input is requiredto drive the system into a prevailing direction.	usa	Springer	2000	1.01	The journal of membrane biology	2.973	2.347
11242011	Innovative ideas for future research on magnetocaloric technologies	Magnetic heating, refrigeration and energy conversion have caused awareness of being promising future environmentally benign technologies with much potential to enter some refrigeration markets. An increased research activitiy is observed, which to the end of the year 2010 lead to approximately forty-two prototypes. As most of these machines contain solid linear moving or rotating beds consisting of magnetocaloric material through static magnetic fields or moving magnets, which sweep a magnetic field over a static bed, all researchers face more or less the same problems. These concern materials, fluids, design and the operation characteristics. In this article innovative new system ideas are presented, which may have the potential to overcome existing barriers. The article is a proposal to the research community in the field of magnetocaloric technologies for future R&D activities. Taking into account all the limits and problems that researchers are tackling at present, the best chance to bring magnetocaloric technologies to the market is to try some substantially new approaches that go beyond the present state of the art.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2010	1.01	International journal of refrigeration	1.439	0.909
1124209	The enhancement of pipemidic acid permeation into the pig urinary bladder wall	The influence of interactions between polycarbophil and calcium on a model drug permeation into the pig urinary bladder wall was investigated. Pipemidic acid was used as a model drug. One percent wžv polycarbophil dispersion significantly increases the permeation of pipemidic acid into the urinary bladder wall. The enhanced absorption of pipemidic acid caused by polycarbophil is significantly less pronounced in polycarbophil dispersions containing calcium. The enhancement of pipemidic acid permeation into the urinary bladder wall could be due to the opening of tight junctions, which causes higher paracellular permeability. In the case of polycarbophil dispersion with calcium some carboxylic groups of polymer are already occupiedwith calcium, present in the dispersions. As a consequence extracellular calcium binds to polycarbophil in lower extent if compared with polycarbophil dispersion without calcium and transport is increased to a lesser degree. We concluded that the mechanism of drug absorption enhancement caused by polycarbophil could be similar for urinary bladder as described in the literature for intestinal mucosa.	nld	Elsevier/North-Holland	2002	1.01	International journal of pharmaceutics	1.495	2.12
11242267	Magnetic power conversion with machines containing full or porous wheel heat exchangers	A first part of the article contains a thermodynamic theory describing the temperature distribution in a Curie wheel. The occurring nonlinear ordinary differential equation has an analytical solution. If a Curie wheel is stabilized by levitation, it is named Palmy wheel. These wheels show a full structure, and because of this reason, their uptake of heat from a flame (Curie wheel) or by (solar) light absorption (Palmy wheel) only on the periphery of a cylinder is very limited. To improve the method, a modificationof the principle by introducing a convective heat transport into aporous wheel is discussed. By this the power conversion rate from a heat fluxto mechanical and electric power is very much increased. The second part of the article presents results of a theoretical/numerical study on the efficiencies of magnetic power conversion plants operating with porous wheels. Furthermore, these efficiencies-which are promising-are compared with those of existing power conversion plants, as e.g. geothermal binary cycle power plants.	nld	North-Holland Publishing Co	2009	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.204	2.034
11242523	Application of magnetic refrigeration and its assessment	Magnetic refrigeration has the potential to replace conventional refrigeration-with often problematic refrigerants-in several niche markets or even some main markets of the refrigeration domain. Based on this insight, for the Swiss Federal Office of Energy a list of almost all existing refrigeration technologies was worked out. Then an evaluation how good magnetic refrigeration applies to each of these technologies was performed. For this purpose a calculation tool to determine the coefficient of performance (COP) and the exergy efficiency as a function of the magnetic field strength and the rotation frequencz of a rotarz-tzpe magnetic refrigerator was developed. The evaluation clearly shows that some application domains are more ideal for a replacement of conventional refrigerators by their magnetic counterparts than others. In the pre-study, four good examples were chosen for a more comprehensive investigation and working out of more detailed results. In this article, the calculation method is briefly described. COP values and exergy efficiencies of one very suitable technology, namely the magnetic household refrigerator, are presented for different operation conditions. Summariying, it is stated that magnetic refrigeration is a serious environmentally benign alternative to some conventional cooling, refrigeration and air-conditioning technologies.	nld	North-Holland Publishing Co	2009	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.204	2.034
11254299	The influence of incident angle, object colour and distance on CNC laser scanning	This article examines the influence of incident angle, object colour and measurement distance on the computer numerically controlled laser scanning process. To determine the physical background of these influences, the operation of the triangulation sensor, the surface reflection and the colour properties of the measured object were analysed. The various influences and their physical background are explained by using a test-measurement setup, which makes it possible to investigate a specific influencing factor. The article concludes with several guidelines that should be followed in order to obtain better measurement results.	gbr	IFS Publications	2010	1.01	International journal, advanced manufacturing technology	1.068	1.019
1125473	A procedure for estimating input energy spectra for seismic design	In this paper, the damage potential of an earthquake ground motion is evaluated in terms of the total power of the acceleration of the ground motion. By assuming an appropriate spectral shape for the input energy spectrum, and using the well-known Parseval theorem for evaluating the total power of a random signal, the peak amplification factor for the equivalent input energy velocity spectrum can be determined. It is shown that the peak amplification factor for the input energy spectrum depends on the peak-ground-acceleration to peak-ground-velocity ratio and duration of the strong motion phase of the ground motion. Values for the equivalent input energy velocity amplification factor vary from about 2 to 10 for most of the recorded ground motions used in this study. Although a considerable scatter of data is observed in this study, the peak amplification factor predicted by the Fourier amplitude spectrum of the ground acceleration provides a fairly good estimate of the mean value of the peak input energy compared to that determined from inelastic dynamic time history analyses, particularly for systems with high damping and low lateral strength. The peak amplification factor derived in this paper provides a more consistent approach for estmation of seismic demand when compared to an earlier empirical expression used for the formulation of duration-dependent inelastic seismic design spectra, even though only a slight difference in the required lateral strenght results from the use of the new formula	gbr	Taylor & Francis Group	2000	1.01	Journal of earthquake engineering	0.796	0.487
11256603	Modeling of a two-stage magnetic refrigerator with wavy-structure gadolinium heat exchangers	In a rotary magnetic refrigerator a porous ring is turning in and out of a magnetic field region. The adiabatic demagnetization of the magnetocaloric material produces the cold energy. This is described by a discontinuous temperature decrease, known as adiabatic temperature difference. For such a machine a physical model has been developed, based on a mapping of the magneto-thermodznamic problem. In this model, in a basic centre cell, two coupled linear partial differential equations are solved, which have been programmed in the Modelica language. The operation of a magnetic refrigerator is simulated with numerous parameters. Steady state solutions are obtained to verify the coefficient of performance under stable operation conditions. Optimal running conditions - defined by maximal values of the coefficient of performance - are not presented in this article, but can now easily be obtained with the existing program. A simple regulation strategy is proposed and implemented into the program.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2010	1.01	International journal of refrigeration	1.439	0.909
1125737	Design and test of a novel closed-loop system that exploits the nociceptive withdrawal reflex for swing-phase support of the hemiparetic gait	A novel closed-loop system for improving gait in hemiparetic patients by supporting the production of the swing phase using electrical stimulations evoking the nociceptive withdrawal reflex was designed. The system exploits the modular organization of the nociceptive withdrawal reflex and its stimulation site- and gait-phase modulation in order to evoke movements of thehip, knee, and ankle joints during the swing phase. A modified model-reference adaptive controller (MRAC) was designed to select the best stimulation parameters from a set of 12 combinations of four electrode locations on the sole of the foot and three different stimulation onset times between heel-off and toe-off. It was hypothesized that the MRAC system would result in a better walking pattern compared with an open-loop preprogrammed fixed pattern of stimulation (FPS) controller. Thirteen chronic or subacute hemiparetic subjects participated in a study to compare the performance of the two control schemes. Both control schemes resulted in a more functional gait compared to no stimulation (P <0.05) with a weighted joint angle peak change of 4.0 +- 1.6 (mean +- Standard deviation) degrees and 3.1 +- 1.4 degrees for the MRAC and FPS schemes, respectively. This indicates that the MRAC scheme performed better than the FPS scheme (P <0.001) in terms of reaching the control target.	usa	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2011	1.01	IEEE transactions on bio-medical engineering	2.278	2.012
11261467	Size effects in manufacturing of metallic components	In manufacturing of metallic components, the size of the part plays an important role for the process behaviour. This is due to so called size effects, which lead to changes in the process behaviour even if the relationship between the main geometrical features is kept constant. The aim of this paper is to give a systematic review on such effects and their potential use or remedz. First, the typology of size effects will be explained, followed by a description of size effects on strength and tribology. The last three sections describe size effects on formability, forming processes and cutting processes.	che	Technische Rundschau;Hallwag Verlag;Colibri	2009	1.01	CIRP annals	1.603	1.067
11265307	Diamond tools for machining of granite and their wear	The increasing demands of the industry and cultural sculpturing for complex shaped products in natural stone makes the use of flexible and completely automatic machines such as CNC machining centers necessary. These machines mainly use diamond tools such as synthesized diamond mills, circular blades, polishing tools, etc. For the machining of stone, diamond tools are becoming increasingly important and suitable, especially for the machining of granite and other hard stones. The aim of this paper is to present and describe the structure of diamond tools, to present diamond tools for different CNC machining technologies and to characterize the principles of diamond tools wear and forces which are active during the basic type of machining.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
1126536	Recombinant lamb chymosin as an alternative coagulating enzyme in cheese production	Recombinant lamb chymosin (RLC) was prepared and tested for its potential use in cheese production. The milk clotting activity and proteolytic activity of RLC were evaluated in comparison with commercial recombinant calf chymosin (RCC), cow rennet (CR), and microbial coagulant (MC). RLC, RCC and MC showed similar responses to pH, with a sharp increase of the coagulation time at pH 6.6. to 6.8 and decrease of curd firmness at the pH 6.5. to 6.6. In the case of CR, we observed two clear increases in the coagulation time and decreases in the curd firmness, at pH 6.4 to 6.5 and 6.6 to 6.8. Optimal clotting activity was obtained for RLC at 40oC, for both CR and RCC at 45oC, and for MC at 60oC. The temperature instability of RLC at temperature above 45oC could constitute a benefit in making hard cheese varieties. The addition of CaCl [down]2 to milk resulted in enhanced clotting activity of all coagulants, most prominently for CR. The proteolytic activity of RLC was significantly lower from that of CR but not significantly different from theactivity of RCC. The lower proteolytic activity in the cheese made with RLC did not have at least compaarable to that of cheese made with RCC, and both cheeses were better scored than the cheese made with CR.	usa	American Dairy Science Association;co-published by Elsevier since 2009-	2001	1.01	Journal of dairy science	1.691	0.672
11265563	Point data pre-processing based on fuzzy logic for reverse engineering modelling	State of the art 3D-digitization systems designed for reverse engineering (RE)modelling are characterized by increased scanning speed and also by the possibility to generate a large number of points in a short time. Generally, this improves the efficiency of the RE-modelling process. In practice however,a significant number of points in the stage of the CAD model generation may become an issue. In addition, the 3D-digitization process is often connected with measuring errors because of the properties of measuring systems and/or the object. Therefore, nowadays considerable attention is devoted to the problem of pre-processing the results of 3D-digitization, often by means of tools of artificial intelligence. This paper introduces a pre-processing system based on fuzzy logic, along with the results of its practical application.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2009	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.533	0.969
11268374	3D multidomain BEM for solving the Laplace equation	An efficient 3D multidomain BEM for solving problems governed by the Laplace equation is presented. Integral boundary equations are discretized using mixed boundary elements. The field function is interpolated using a continuous linear function while its derivative in a normal direction is interpolated using a discontiuous constant function over surface boundaey elements. Using amultidomain approach, also known as the subdomain technique, sparse system matrices similar to FEM are obtained. Interface boundary conditions between subdomains leads to an over-determined system matrix which is solved using a fast iterative linear least square solver. The accuracy and the robustness of the developed algorithm is presented on a scalar diffusion problem using simple cube geometry and various types of meshes. The efficiency is demonstrated with potential flow around a complex geometry of a fighter airplane using a tetrahedral mesh with over 100.000 subdomains on a personal computer.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Engineering analysis with boundary elements	0.936	0.771
11269593	Screening methods for cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene mutations in non-human primates	We report here a comparison of isotopic and non-isotopic conformation analysisapproach, for screening genomic DNA for coding variations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. A large pool of non-human primates was tested in order to detect naturally occuring CFTR carries, for future testing of gene therapy of cystic fibrosis. We screened 25of 27 CFTR exons in over 1,000 animals. We have detected numerous missense mutations and single nucleotide polymorphisms. We found that both methods are highly efficient for detection of variations in DNA sequence, but the non-radioactive approach is faster, less expensive and in some cases more sensitive.	deu	Springer-Verlag	2000	1.08	Pflügers Archiv	2.203	2.347
11270422	Non-destructive method for inward leakage detection of a plate evaporator	A new non-destructive method was developed for the detection of refrigerant leakage at an evaporator`s inflow. Nitrogen and oxygen gas were successively blown through the evaporator. A gas analyser was applied at the outflow of the evaporator and the oxygen concentration measured. It was possible to detect any leakage by investigating the oxygen concentration-time history diagram.	usa	IOP Publishing	2007	1.01	Measurement science & technology	1.297	0.771
1127126	Toward a reduction in tooth number	The permanent dentition of roe deer (Capreolus capreolus L.) comprises 30-32 teeth with the following dental formula: I 0/3, C 0/(1), P 3/3, M 3/3. Variations in tooth number and shape are rather uncommon in this species and factors determining roe deer dentition are considered to be quite stable. In both upper and lower jaws the first premolar is normally missing, but can be occasionally observed. To discover the frequency of P1 in the whole population, its occurrence was studied in the left hemi-mandibles of the totalone-year (2007) roe deer mortality in Slovenia, representing a large sample set of 41,895 individuals. The first premolar was detected in only 27 individuals (13 males, 12 females, 2 without data), indicating that its occurrence is very low and sporadic (0.6Ž). Furthermore, the results of previous archaeozoological and embryological studies were analyzed. On the basis of observed facts, we conclude that the first mandibular premolars of roe deer belong to a category of tooth that has been suppressed in the evolution of the Cervidae.	ita	Mucchi Editore	2012	1.01	The Italian journal of zoology	0.939	1.303
11272153	Evaluation of microsatellite markers for efficient assesment of high microsatellite instabile colorectal tumors	Two hundred thirty randomly collected primary colorectal tumors were initiallyscreened for microsatellite instability (MSI) with three highly informative microsatellite markers (BAT26, D2S123 and D5S346). Forty one (17.8%) tumors showed alterations in at least one marker. In further MSI analysis of these 41 MSI tumors with additional 9 markers, 21 tumors (9.6% of 230 analyzed) exhibited MSI at more than 40% and the rest 20 (8.7% of 230 analyzed) tumors exhibited MSI at 8%-20% tested markers. These results supportclassification of MSI tumors into high MSI tumors (more than 40% unstable loci) and low MSI tumors (less than 20% unstable loci). Based on our results the combination of BAT26 and two out of four other highly informative markers (D2S123, D5S346, BAT25 or BAT40) is recommended for rapid and reliableassessment of high MSI tumors.	deu	Springer-Verlag	2000	1.08	Pflügers Archiv	2.203	2.347
11273689	Can hTNF-[alpha] be successfully produced and secreted in filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger	A gene-fusion expression strategy was applied for the heterologous expression of hTNF-alpha in A. niger AB1.13. The TNF-alpha gene was fused with the A. niger glucoamylase GII form as a carrier-gene, behind its transcription control and secretion signal. The protein was expressed in the cells in the form of a glucoamylase-fusion protein, but was not present in the culture medium. From the expression of two hTNF-alpha analogues, LK 811 (Cys95/148) and LK 802 (Cys95/148, His107/108) respectively, we concluded that oligomerisation was not the critical point for secretion of hTNF-alpha in A. niger, but more probably improper folding already at the stage of monomer formation, or even incorrect processing of the molecule during the secretion pathway.	deu	Springer-Verlag	2000	1.08	Pflügers Archiv	2.203	2.347
11274267	Real contact temperatures as the criteria for the reactivity of diamond-like carbon coatings with oil additives	The operating conditions under which chemical reactions between diamond-like-carbon (DLC) coatings and oil additives occur and the main driving forces, i.e., the activation criteria for these chemical reactions, have not yet been defined. In order to clarify the difference between the test temperature and real contact temperature, and to determine the effect of the real contact temperature for these reactions, we have calculated the contact temperatures using two well-known models and compare them with results of tribological experiments and some state-of-the-art analyses of wornsurfaces. The results suggest that the actual surface temperatures are 100-130 °C higher than the test temperatures. A contact temperature of about 250-260 °C was found to be the required key activation criterion for chemical reactions between the dialkyl dithiophosphate extreme-pressure (EP) additive and the DLC coating. Gradual formation of a tribochemical protective film from phosphates and organic sulphur/sulphates suggests a lower chemical reactivity and slower formation of the optimal tribochemical protective layer on DLC coatings than on steels. No tribological effect of anti-wear (AW)or EP additives could be found on the DLC coatings when the surface temperatures were below 120-140 °C. The temperature-induced graphitisation of the DLC that occurred in the contacts with the base oils, however, require about 250 °C of contact temperature. Lower surface temperatures or the use of additives suppressed this graphitisation.	che	Elsevier Sequoia	2010	1.01	Thin Solid Films	1.909	1.159
11274523	Monitoring laser cut quality using acoustic emission	The paper presents results of an analysis of acoustic-emission (AE) signals obtained during laser cutting of a steel plates, which are frequently used in the production of automotive body components. In the course of laser cutting, continuous signals, which are related to the quality achieved of the laser cut, are measured. After laser cutting characteristic AE bursts in the specimen material, which are results of a thermal influence, can be detected. The presence of dross is an important indicator of poor quality of laser cutting. The investigation on laser cutting was conducted on an unalloyed steel DC04 sheet and on austenitic stainless steel X5CrNi18-10 sheet of 1.5 mmin thickness. The same physical mechanism in the cut formation at both steels, however, resulted in a considerable different cut quality, which was indicated by the AE signals captured after the cutting process.	usa	Pergamon	2009	1.01	International journal of machine tools & manufacture	1.956	0.969
11275035	Determination of optimal cutting edge geometry on a stamped orthotropic circular electrical steel sheet	Today engineers involved in the stamping process used for high-volume production of rotor and stator laminations are faced with a great challenge to achieve extremely narrow dimensional and geometrical tolerance on their products. Because materials are produced by different suppliers, adjustments of technological parameters to the emerging differences are required to maintain the high quality of products. An upgraded engineering method was developed in which electrical steel sheet of semi-finish grade was not treated traditionally, but as a 3D body with orthotropic material behaviour. The round profile of the cutting edge was studied from the experimental and numerical point of view. If the completely round punch was used, the profile of the cutting edge appeared as a non-round shape. With additional FEM analyses a new profile of punch was designed as a non-round shape to be able to provide much better circularity. FEM simulation showed that 10 times lower profile deviations were found on the workpiece shaped by the new cutting element profile.	nld	Elsevier	2010	1.01	Journal of materials processing technology	1.567	1.019
1127560	The bacteriophages of ruminal prevotellas	Rumen bacteriophage-lyzed bacterial strains of the genus Prevotella were isolated and preliminarily characterized. The strain TC1-1 the species P. bryantii was the only prevotella strain successfully infected with filter sterilized rumen fluid from a black-white Holstein cow. Two types of plaques were observed, both rather small and turbid. Preliminary electron microscopy observation showed that several morphologically different bacteriphages were present in these plaques. The plaque eluates were further used for the infection of other prevotella strains. The plaques produced by the bacteriophages were observed with two strains, i. e. P. Bryantii B[down]1 4 and P. brevis GA33. The bacteriophages from both strains were examined by transmission electron microsopy and several morphologically different bacteriophages were observed, among others also a large virion with an icosahedral head with the diameter of ques of bacterial cells of the strain GA33 and has an approximately 800 nm long helical tail, which places it among the largest ruminal bacteriophages described to date. Other bacteriophages from the same indicator strain as well as from P. bryantii B[down]1 4 strain were smaller and tail structures were not observed in all of them.	cze	Springer	2001	1.01	Folia microbiologica	0.776	1.706
11276249	Molecular properties of central and peripheral histamine H1 and H2 receptors	We identified and characterised histamine H1 and H2 receptor subtypes on rat cortical astrocytes in primary culture with radioligand binding studies and compared their molecular properties with peripheral (bovine vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells) histamine H1 and H2 receptors. Our results showed the existence of a homogenous population of high affinity binding sitesfor 3H-mepyramine (Bmax= 281 fmol/mg protein, KD= 3.5 +/- 0.7 nM) and 3H-tiotidine (Bmax= 59 fmol/mg protein, KD 1.9 +/- 0.7 nM) on astrocytes, which was further confirmed by competition binding studies using various H1 and H2 specific agonists/antagonists. We showed differences in the density of receptors and differences in the affinities of competing drugs for the same histamine receptor subtype (H1 and H2) between the tissues used, which indicate different molecular properties of the central and peripheral histamine receptors.	deu	Slovenian Physiological Society	2000	1.08	Pflügers Archiv	2.203	2.347
11277273	The frequency dependence of phospholipid vesicle shapes in an external electric field	Experiments show that phospholipid vesicles exposed to AC electric field undergo a shape transition from prolate to oblate ellipsoidal shape when the frequency of the field is increased. A theoretical model, based on the minimization of total free energy of the vesicle, was devised to explain this phenomenon. The model exhibits the same frequency-dependent prolate-to-oblate shape transition as observed in the experiment.	deu	Springer-Verlag	2000	1.08	Pflügers Archiv	2.203	2.347
11277334	Adsorption of toxic organic compounds from water with hydrophobic silica aerogels	Silica monolith aerogels with different degrees of hydrophobicity were prepared by incorporating methyltrimethoxysilane (MTMS) or trimethylethoxysilane (TMES) in standard sol-gel synthesis followed by supercritical drying of gels with carbon dioxide (CO(2)) at 40 degrees C and 100 bar. The hydrophobicity of the aerogels was tested by measuring the contact angle (theta). The aerogels were also characterised by FTIR, DSC, and porosity measurements. Adsorption capacity measurements show that such modified hydrophobic silica aerogels are excellent adsorbents for different toxic organic compounds from water. In comparison to granulated active carbon (GAC) they exhibit capacities which are from 15 to 400 times higher for all tested compounds. Adsorption properties of hydrophobic silica aerogel remain stable even after 20 adsorption/desorption cycles.	nld	Academic Press	2007	1.01	Journal of colloid and interface science	2.309	2.506
1127816	Systematics and evolution of ruminal species of the genus Prevotella	Bacterial species of the genus Prevotella represent a numerically dominant microbial population in the rumen of cattle. They belong to the phylogenetic division Cytophaga-Flexibacter-Bacteroides (CFB) which is a large group of ecologically diverse bacteria with only a few shared traits. The phylogenetic descent from a common ancestor seems to be unquestionable, however, as judged from the small subunit ribosomal RNA analysis. Only 4 ruminal Prevotella species have been described to date, even though the sequence analysis of directly retrived 16S rRNA genes indicates a large genetic diversity within this group of rumen bacteria. The colsest relatives of ruminal Prevotella spp. are not surprisingly other species of the genus Prevotella, typically inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract, oral activity and genital areas of other animals ans man. The previous phylogenetic analysis showed that species of the genus Prevotella can be split into two groups or superclusters, the ""ruminal"" and the ""non-ruminal prevotellas"". One of 4 currently described ruminal Prevotella spp., i. e. P. albensis, has been placed outside the supercluster containing ruminal Prevotella spp. and within the supercluster containing the non-ruminal Prevotellaspp. However, the number of available small subunitrRNA sequences from this species represents only a fraction of allknown ruminal Prevotella sequences.	cze	Springer	2001	1.01	Folia microbiologica	0.776	1.706
11278297	Lowering of the coronary flow in isolated rat heart by equinatoxin II depends upon extracellular Ca[sub]2+ concentration	Equinatoxin II (EqT II) is a basic polypeptide toxin from the sea anemone Actinia equina (L.). Its LD50 in mice is 33 g/kg. The cause of death after intravenous application has been attributed to the circulatory failure resulting in the cardiotoxic effects. In Langendorff's rat and guinea-pig heart preparations EqT II caused dose dependent decrease in the coronary flow (CF). Morphologic changes of different cell cultures incubated with EqT II arethe result of Ca2+ entry through the newly formed discrete pores. Pores in the cell membranes are composed of the toxin oligomeres. In the present study we tried to evaluate the dependence of vasoconstrictor effects of EqT II on isolated rat hearts upon the Ca2+ concentration in the perfusion solution. EqTII did not affect the CF in the group without Ca2+. The strongest effect was observed in the group with 1.5 mM Ca2+ where the CF decreased to 7.7+-7 %.The results of our experiments indicate that the effects of EqT II on CF depend on Ca2+ concentration in the extracellular solution.	deu	Slovenian Physiological Society	2000	1.08	Pflügers Archiv	2.203	2.347
1128072	Preliminary characterization of a tentatively novel rumen bacterial species from the genus Treponema	A new spirochetal strain was isolated from the rumen of a black-and-white Holstein cow and preliminarily characterized. The sugar fermentation tests and morphological observations indicated this organism to be a member of a novel, as yet underscribed spirochetal rumen species. The small subunit ribosomal RNA were amplified and the PCR products were cut with the restriction endonucleases TaqI, DdeI, HhaI and Sau3AI. The comparison of the observed RFLP with the hypothetical fragment lengths of the computer analyzed 16S rRNA sequences from the type strains of the ruminal spirochetes Treponema bryantii and T. saccharophilum confirmed the tentative novel identification. Transmission electron microscopy showed that the bacterium has the typical spirochetal structures, i. e. the other sheath, the protoplasmic cylinder and the axial filament (it is not yet clear how many flagella compose the filament). An additional extracellular structure was observed which appeared as an exocytoplasmic polar flagellum, approximately 2 [micron]m long and protruding from one tip of the cell. The average size of the cells was 0.5 x 10-15 [mikron]m and the wavelengths and the amplitudes of the primary coils were 2.9 and 1.3 [mikron]m, respectively.	cze	Springer	2001	1.01	Folia microbiologica	0.776	1.706
11281174	Methodology for determination of anaerobic digestion kinetics using a bench top digester	This paper presents a methodology for determining the microbial growth kinetics of an ideal anaerobic process in a non-ideal laboratory anaerobic digester (Armfield). Some laboratory experiments were performed, to confirm the proposed methodology. Having the same zero biomass concentration, some process parameters were changed and their influence on substrate outlet concentration was monitored. The specific growth rate of the biomass, the saturation constant of the substrate, and the yield coefficient were calculated, on the basis of the measured values. These parameters enabled us to perform a dynamic simulation of an anaerobic process in ideal continuously-stirred tank reactors (CSTR). The results represented the mass concentration profiles for substrate and biomass, from which the time required for reaching the steady state (60 d), where the operation is optimal, could be determined. The laboratory anaerobic digester provided operational process data, which are applicable for wastewater treatment plant design purposes.	nld	Elsevier;Pergamon	2007	1.01	Resources, conservation and recycling	1.270	1.376
11283033	Generalized Anderson's inequality	Let ?$H$? be a separable infinte-dimensional complex Hilbert space and let ?${\mathcal B}(H)$? denote the algebra of operators on ?$H$? into itself. We study the elementary operator ?$\Phi: {\mathcal B}(H) \to {\mathcal B}(H)$? defined by ?$\Phi(X) = AXB - CXD$?, where ?$A$? and ?$C$? (respectively, ?$B$? and ?$D$?) are nonzero normal commuting operators. We prove that: (i) ?$\|\Phi(X) + S\| \ge \|S\|$? for all ?$S \in {\mathcal N}(\Phi)? (the kernel of ?$\Phi$? and for all ?$X \in {\mathcal B}(H)$? or (ii) ?$\|\Phi(X) + S\|_p \ge \|S\|_p$? for all ?$S \in {\mathcal N}(\Phi) \cap {\mathcal C}_p$? (the von Neumann-Schatten class), ?$1 \le p < \infty, \; p \ne 2$?, and for all ?$X \in {\mathcal B}(H)$? such that ?$\Phi(X) \in {\mathcal C}_p$? if and only if ?${\mathcal N}(A) \cap {\mathcal N}(C) = {\mathcal N}(B^\ast) \cap {\mathcal N}(D^\ast) = \{0\}$?.	usa	Academic Press.	2001	1.01	Journal of mathematical analysis and applications	0.444	0.48
1128328	Ribosomal RNA genes from Prevotella bryantii	Five P. bryantii B[down]1 416rRNA gene copies and their flanking regions were cloned and analyzed. A genomic library was constructed and screened with oligonucleotide DNA probe specific for 16S rRNA gene of P. bryantii. Five out of six different copies of 16S RNA gene were recovered and sequenced. Only minor differences (0.3-1.2%) between copies were detected within the 1541 bp long sequence. The impact of the sequence variability of 16S rRNA gene copies on phylogenetic positioning of P. brayantii was determined. All five sequences form cloned P. brayantii [down]1 4 16S rRNA genes were placed in the same operational taxonomy unit. Control regions of all five analyzed rRNA operons were almost identical and three candidate for promoter sequences were identified by Neutral Network Promoter Prediciton. Spacer regions betwee 16S rRNA and 23S rRNA genes in all five cloned copies were 543 bp long and genes for tRNA [up] Ile and tRNA [up]Ala were identified inside this regions.	cze	Springer	2001	1.01	Folia microbiologica	0.776	1.706
1128540	Isolation and quantification of triterpenoid acids from Ganoderma applanatum of Istrian origin	Various Ganoderma ssp. have been known for their wide range of pharmacologically active compounds. From Ganoderma applanatum of Istrian origin, growing on Populus, triterpenoid acids were isolated and quantified. An in-house relational system was built and used as a support for isolation and identification of triterpenoids from different layers of G. applanatum fruiting bodies. An optimised extraction procedure was developed, and IR, UV and NMR spectra were used for the identification of ganoderic and ganoderenic acids. The highest fraction of triterpenoid acids was found in the tubes (6.4 mg/g of air-dry weight), followed by the dark context layer, which is the young part of the pileus (2.5 mg/g). The white context layer of the older pileus and the upper surface of the fruiting body contained only about 0.6 mg/g of triterpenoid acids.	hrv	Faculty of Food Technology and Biotechnology	2000	1.01	Food technology and biotechnology	0.291	0.734
1128561	Screening of Basidiomycete mushroom extracts for antigenotoxic and bio-antimutagenic activity	In this study we screened crude methanol water exctracts 89 different mushroom species for their antigenotoxic and bioantimutagenic activity. The creening was performed with the SOS/umu test and we monitored the ability of extracts to inhibit UV induced expression of umuC gene in Salmonella typhimurium TA1535/pSK1002. Seventeen extracts inhibited umuC exoressionby more than 50%. These extracts were further evaluated for the ability to inhibit UV induced mutations in Escherichia coli WP@. Five extracts ( Cortinarius evernius, Rozites caperatus, LActarius vellereus, Russula integra and Pleurotus cornucopiae) inhibited also Uv induced mutations. The study showed that certain mushrooms contain substances with bio-antimutahenic potential. Particularly interesting for further investigation are Pleurotus cornucopiae (Lentinaceae), which was the most effective and species of Russulaceae and Cortinaceae families, which might contain common family specific bio-antimutagenic substance(s).	deu	Verlag Volk und Gesundheit	2002	1.01	Pharmazie	0.740	1.557
1128817	Mucoadhesion on pig vesical mucosa: influence of polycarbophil/calcium interactions	The influence of polycarbophil/calcium interactions on the mucoadhesive properties of polycarbophil has been examined. Polycarbophil dispersions and films with different concentrations of calcium or sodium ions were prepared and the following parameters were measured: detachment force on pig vesical mucosa, zeta potential, pH and viscosity. Polycarbophil detachment force decreased significantly in the presence of calcium but not sodium. Both ions decrease the pH of polycarbophil dispersions. On the other hand, altering the pH of hydrated polycarbophil films in the absence of added ions had an insignificant effect on detachment force. Both ions reduce the absolute valuesof polycarbophil zeta potential, calcium more efficiently than sodium. We could conclude that decreased mucoadhesion strength of polycarbophil in thepresence of calcium is due to the chelation of polycarbophil carboxylic groups by calcium and crosslinking of polymer. The crosslinked polymer chains would be expected to be less flexible, and therefore, interpenetrate to a lesser extent with the glycosaminoglycans of mucus. Additionally, the interactions between functional groups of polycarbophil and mucus glycosaminoglycans are lowered due to the calcium, blocking the carboxylic groups. The mechanism of calcium influence on viscosity of polycarbophil dispersions appears to be different: repulsion between ionised carboxylic groups of polycarbophil prevails over the crosslinking of polycarbophil by calcium.	nld	Elsevier/North-Holland	2002	1.01	International journal of pharmaceutics	1.495	2.12
11289878	Isolation of chlorophylls from stinging nettle (Urtica dioica L.)	This study was aimed to assess the feasibility of extracting chlorophylls fromstinging nettle (Urtica dioica L.) by solvent extraction. In preliminary, the investigation concerned three parts of raw material (leaves, stalk and whole plant), different preservation techniques (blanching and drying) and different storage temperatures of preserved material ( |20 C for blanched and 4 C for dried sample). Extracts were analysed for chlorophyll A and chlorophyll B, respectively, by means of HPLC method. Afterwards, optimizationof single-step conventional extraction was carried out by examining the influence of the following process parameters on the extraction yield and isolation efficiency of chlorophylls: type of organic solvent, content of water in ethanol/water mixtures, ratio solvent/material, temperature, time of extraction and pH of the extraction mixture. Furthermore,to improve the yield and/or the selectivity of the extraction, multi-step conventional extraction experiments as well as other solid ]liquid extraction techniques (soxhlet and ultra-sound assisted) were performed and compared. c 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Separation and purification technology	2.142	1.015
1129073	Investigation of polymeric nanoparticles as carriers of enalaprilat for oral administration	Enalaprilat is a typical angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and is very poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. The aim of this study was to design and characterize poly-(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) and polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) nanoparticles containing enalaprilat and to evaluate the potential of these colloidal carriers for the transport of drugs through the intestinal mucosa. Nanoparticle dispersions were prepared by the emulsification-diffusion method and characterized according to particle size, zeta potential, entrapment efficiency and physical stability. Effective permeabilities through rat jejunum of enalaprilat in solution and in enalaprilat-loaded nanoparticles were compared using side-by-side diffusion chambers. The solubility of enalaprilat is very low in many acceptable organicsolvents, but in benzyl alcohol is sufficient to enable the production of nanoparticles by the emulsification-diffusion process. The diameters of drug-loaded PMMA and PLGA nanoparticles were 297 and 204 nm, respectively. Theconcentration of the stabilizer polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) in dispersion has an influence on particle size but not on drug entrapment. The type of polymer has a decisive influence on drug content--7 and 13% for PMMA and PLGA nanoparticles, respectively. In vitro release studies show a biphasic release of enalaprilat from nanoparticle dispersions--fast in the first step and very slow in the second. The apparent permeability coefficient across rat jejunum of enalaprilat entrapped in PLGA nanoparticles is not significantly improved compared with enalaprilat in solution.	nld	Elsevier/North-Holland	2002	1.01	International journal of pharmaceutics	1.495	2.12
11292699	Influence of the graphite absorber during laser surface hardening	The paper presents the results of the research of a laser surface hardening process applied to the C45E steel with graphite absorber coating on specimen surfaces. The evaluation of the laser surface hardening process was performed by measuring the IR radiation from the interaction spot. The results confirmeda strong correlation between the IR radiation voltage signal and the dimensions of microstructural changes occuring in the laser surface hardening steel. Changes of the absorbing coating thickness produced changes of the absorptivity of the laser beam, which was confirmed by measurements of the depth and width of hardened traces. For laser surface hardening the optimum coating thickness of a graphite absorber was determined. A factorial analysis and a method of orthogonal polynomials were used to determine response surfaces for the voltage signal of IR radiation the depth and width of the hardened trace achieved. Absorptivity difference between various graphite absorber coating thicknesses was evaluated based on the Ashby-Shercliff model.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2010	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.466	0.909
11295321	The groups LS and morphisms of quadratic extensions	In geometry, the splitting obstruction groups ?$LS_\ast(F)$? are defined for any pair of manifolds ?$X \subset Y$?. These groups are not depend on the specific pair of manifolds, but rather depend only on the square ?$F$? of the fundamental groups which arise after cutting the manifold ?$Y$? along the submanifold ?$X$?. In the present paper we introduce the groups ?$LS_\ast(F)$? for an arbitrary morphism ?$F$? of quadratic extensions of antistructures. The introduced groups are a natural generalization of the usual groups ?$LS_\ast$? in the case of the one-sided submanifold. The introduced groups have the same algebraic properties and coincide with the geometric groups ?$LS_\ast$? when the morphism ?$F$? is given by the square of group rings over ?$\ZZ$? obtained from the square of fundamental groups.	rus	Consultants Bureau	2001	1.01	Mathematical notes	0.157	0.48
11295577	Algebraic properties of decorated splitting obstruction groups	In this paper we develop new relations among decorated splitting obstruction groups LS and LP. We describe the properties of natural mappings among various decorated groups. We construct various spectral sequences of such decorated groups and we study connections with spectral sequences in K-theory for certain quadratic extensions of antistructures. Finally, we introduce the concept of a geometric diagram of groups and explicitely calculate obstruction groups for the diagram consisting of finite 2-groups.	ita	Zanichelli Nicola	2001	1.01	Bollettino dell'Unione Matematica Italiana. B, fascicoli suplementari	0.051	0.48
11296027	A single-stage centripetal pump - design features and an investigation of the operating characteristics	In this paper, we present an experimental and numerical investigation of a single-stage centripetal pump (SSCP). This SSCP is designed to operate in the pump regime, while forcing the working media through impeller-stator flow channels in the radial inward direction. The measured performance curves are characterized by a hysteresis, since the throttle-closing performance curves do not correspond to the throttle-opening performance curves throughout the whole operating range. A computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model was developed to establish these throttle-closing and throttle-opening performancecurves. The flow conditions obtained with the CFD simulations confirm that the hydraulic behavior of the SSCP is influenced by the partial circumferential stall that occurs in the impeller-stator flow channels. It wasshown that the inflow conditions to the impeller-stator assembly considerably influence the flow rate of the stall cessation, the size of the hysteresis, and the head generated during part-load operations.	usa	American Society of Mechanical Engineers	2010	1.01	Journal of fluids engineering	0.440	0.909
11297558	Detecting fault modules using bioinformatics techniques	Many software reliability studies attempt to develop a model for predicting the faults of a software module because the application of good prediction models provides important information on significant metrics that should be observed in the early stages of implementation during software development. In this article we propose a new method inspired by a multi-agent based system that was initially used for classification and attribute selection in microarray analysis. Best classifying gene subset selection is a common problem in the field of bioinformatics. If we regard the software metrics measurement values of a software module as a genome of that module, and the real world dynamic characteristic of that module as its phenotype (i.e. failures as disease symptoms) we can borrow the established bioinformatics methods in the manner first to predict the module behavior and second to data mine the relations between metrics and failures.	svn	World Scientific	2007	1.01	International journal of software engineering and knowledge engineering	0.239	0.927
11299355	Transitioning to sustainable production	This paper presents a case-study that highlights the importance of sustainable machining technologies in achieving sustainable development objectives. A technology evaluation was undertaken to understand the likely impacts of the use of technology on sustainability performance measures. The evaluation is more than an experimental method for supporting the design of technology and an instrument for supporting decision-making. It is also a toolfor supporting technology policy and for encouraging its adoption and application in industry. More specifically, a sustainability evaluation of cryogenic and high pressure jet-assisted machining in comparison to conventional machining is examined. Sustainability performance measures refer to environmental impact, energy consumption, safety, personal health, waste management, and cost. The case-study refers to the machining of high-temperature Ni-alloz (Inconel 718). It is shown that tooling costs represent the major contribution to the overall production cost, which contradicts previous analzses, and that sustainable machining alternatives offer a cost-effective route to improving economic, environmental, and social performance in comparison to conventional machining.	gbr	Elsevier	2010	1.01	Journal of cleaner production	2.425	1.886
11299606	Morphology of solidified polysulfone structures obtained by wet phase separation	Evidence is presented that all three theoretically predicted modes of phase separation take place in the ternary system polysulfone(PSf)/N,N-dimethyl acetamide(DMA)/water during the process of wet phase separation (WPS). The elementary process of solidification is reconsidered with regard to the (non-)equilibrium phase separation. Cast solutions with more than 15 wt% of PSf undergo nucleation and growth of the polymer lean phase with formation of separation membranes characterised by a cellular structure. When cast solutions with about 5-7 wt% of PSf undergo WPS, somewhere inside the ternary system conditions are established so that alongside other solidified PSf structures the bicontinuous spinodal structures superimposed by bead-like structures are also formed. Variety of lacy PSf structures with less/more polymer beads is the manifestation of the primary phase separation by the spinodal mode superimposed by the secondary phase separation taking place by heterogeneous nucleation and growth of the polymer rich phase mode. Latex formation during the WPS will also be explained. Skin formation on the cast solution - coagulation bath interface by direct accumulation of polymer is established regardless of the PSf content in the cast solution.	nld	Pergamon Press	2007	1.01	European Polymer Journal	2.248	1.528
11300569	Predictive characteristics of users of alternative medicine	Background: The use of alternative medicine has become an important factor in health care delivery. Objectives: To evaluate patient characteristics, morbidity, functional status, quality of life, satisfaction with care, practice characteristics and health care utilisation in general practice patients using alternative medicine. Design: Cross-sectional survey of GP patients completing a self-administered questionnaire. Setting: A stratified sample of 36 GP offices in Slovenia. Main output data: Patients' age, sex, educational status, residence, presence of chronic condition, incidence of anxiety or depressive symptoms, incidence of patient-expressed need for emergency care in one year, data on self-care, data on functional status, quality of life, satisfaction with care, incidence of use of out- of-hours services and specialist or hospital services in users versus non-users. Results: 115/1753 patients (6.6%) reported visits to alternative practitionersin 1997. Users of alternative medicine were from midlife age groups; were more likely to have a chronic condition, had a lower perception of life quality and a higher incidence of anxiety and depressive symptoms, andhad had more need for emergency treatment. They are heavier users of primary as well as secondary care services; they have changed their GP recently but are not significantly dissatisfied with their current regular GP.Conclusions: Use of alternative medicine appears to be characteristic of patients with a more active approach to managing their problems. GPs should enquire about the use of alternative medicine by their patients, especially those more likely to seek such help. Raising the question of alternative medicine will improve doctor-patient communication and help to resolve underlying health problems.	che	Schwabe und Co	2000	1.01	Schweizerische Medizinische Wochenschrift	0.258	1.695
1130076	Using starch to dispense indicators and reagents	The new experimental method described above can help in teaching and learning acid-base concepts. It is suitable for experimental work performed by pupils and can be used also for teacher´s demonstrations. In this method, a soft medium based om flour is used as a reaction medium to carry out chemical reactions that can normally run in water solution. No laboratory glassware is necessary for the experiments, and there is no risk of spillage. The experiments can be done anywhere, safely and individually also in a larger group of pupils. Micro or semi-micro quantities of chemicals are employed, andthe medium, which has been used, can be safely disposed afterwards.	svn	Slovensko kemijsko društvo =Slovenian Chemical Society	2000	1.01	Acta chimica slovenica	0.161	1.544
11300891	Optodynamic observation of double laser-induced breakdown at the water surface	A measurement technique based on the combination of beam deflection probe and photographic detection of optical emission is introduced for the study of laser-induced dielectric breakdown in the vicinity of the air-water interface.The plasma was photographed with a CCD camera and the shock wave generated by the breakdown in the air and inside the water was detected with abeam deflection probe as a function of the focus position. The comparative analysis of the photographic images and the characteristics of the simultaneously recorded ultrasonic signals shows that the amplitudes and the arrival times of the ultrasonic waves can reliably describe the characteristics of the breakdown and its position relative to the water surface. At certain focus positions the existence of double breakdown is evident.	gbr	IOP Publishing	2010	1.01	Measurement science & technology	1.350	0.826
11302166	Fractional calculus applied to the analysis of spectral electrical conductivity of clay-water system	The analysis of the low-frequency conductivity spectra of the clay-water mixtures is presented. The frequency dependence of the conductivity is shown to follow the power-law with the exponent n = 0.67 before reaching the frequency-independent part. When scaled with the value of the frequency-independent part of the spectrum the conductivity spectra for samples at different water content values are shown to fit to a single master curve. It is argued that the observed conductivity dispersion is a consequence of the anomalously diffusing ions in the clay-water system. The fractional Langevin equation is then used to describe the stochastic dynamics of the single ion. The results indicate that the experimentally observed dielectric properties originate in anomalous ion transport in clay-water system characterized with time-dependent diffusion coefficient.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Journal of contaminant hydrology	1.852	1.063
11302617	Echo-enhanced ultrasound voiding cystography in children	The development of echo-enhancing agents has signifcantly improved the detection of the movement of fluid within the urinary tract by ultrasonography(US). The purpose of our study was to compare ultrasound voiding cystography (USVC) for the detection of vesicoureteric reflux (VUR) inchildren with direct radionuclide voiding cystography (DRVC). Ninety-nine children, aged 1.1-12.3 years, with 198 potentially refluxing units, were investigated simultaneously by DRVC and USVC. The indications for cystography were urinary tract infection, follow-up of a previously detected VUR, and screening of siblings of children with VUR. During the investigation an echo-enhancing agent (Levovist) was administered intravesically through a catheter already in place for the DRVC. The movement of both agents, radiotracer and Levovist, was registered simultaneously by a computerized gamma camera and US, respectively. The results were analyzed with DRVC representing the reference diagnostic test. The overall sensitivity and specificity of USVC for the detection of VUR were 79% and 92%, respectively. USVC may represent a reliable diagnostic tool for the detection and follow- upof VUR in children.	deu	Springer-Verlag New York;Springer	2000	1.01	Pediatric nephrology	1.370	1.024
11302873	Trypsin level in gallbladder bile and ductitis and width of the cystic duct	Background/Aims: The change from laparotomy to laparoscopy for cholecystectomyhas raised the question of how to manage concomitant bile duct stones. The present-day interest - and controversy - has focused on a transcystic approach reported to be feasible in 66-96% of cases, but without explaining the necessary prerequisite: the widening of the cystic duct. The cystic duct, wide mainly in patients with bile duct stones, has been reported to be highly variable: from strictured to very wide. The present study aims atcomparing the trypsin level in the gallbladder bile and the cystic duct morphology and width in patients with and without bile duct stones. Methodology: A prospective series of 63 gallstone patients, 30 with and 33 without bile duct stones (controls), underwent cholecystectomy and bile duct clearance. The study includes the trypsin level in the gallbladder bile, the width and morphology of the cystic duct, and the size of the gallstones. Results: The patients with bile duct stones had, in contrast to the controls, higher trypsin levels in the gallbladder bile (P<0.001) and wider cystic ducts(P<0.001) with more pronounced signs of chronic ductitis. Conclusions: The obtained results strongly suggest that the increased trypsin level, a signof reflux of pancreatic juice, caused changes in the cystic duct that facilitate gallstone migration, which also ought to render a transcystic stoneextraction feasible.	grc	Thieme	2000	1.01	Hepato-gastroenterology	0.905	1.146
11304731	Determination of hardness and residual-stress variations in hardened surface layers with magnetic Barkhausen noise	We use magnetic Barkhausen noise to assess the microstructure, hardness, and residual stresses in hardened surface layers. We performed measurements on induction surface-hardened specimens, the thickness of hardened layers being different in each case. A change in the microstructure of the hardened surfacelazer produces changes in specific electric conductivity $sigma$ and relative permeability $mu_{rm r}$. The two parameters and chosen analyzing frequencies influence the depth sensing of micromagnetic changes. The most commonly chosen characteristic of Barkhausen noise is the ${rm V}^{2}_{rm RMS}$ value of a captured signal. The choice of frequency determines the depthat which the Barkhausen noise will be analyzed to determine microhardnessor residual stresses.	usa	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2010	1.01	IEEE transactions on magnetics	1.052	1.203
1130575	Microphytobenthos in the Gulf of Trieste (Northern Adriatic Sea): relationship with labile sedimentary organic matter and nutrients	Seasonal and inter-annual variations of microphytobenthos and inorganic nutrients were examined in sediments sited at 20 m depth in the Gulf of Trieste (Northern Adriatic Sea). Seasonal changes in water-soluble carbohydrates and proteins were studied in order to obtain information on quality and quantity of labile organic matter and the role of microphytobenthos in producing these compounds...	nld	Academic Press in association with the Estuarine and Brackish-water Sciences Association	2002	1.01	Estuarine, coastal and shelf science	1.201	1.138
11306262	Inverse limits as limits with respect to the Hausdorff metric	We show that the inverse limit of any inverse sequence of compact metric spaces and surjective bonding maps is in fact the limit of a sequence of homeomorphic copies of the same spaces with respect to Hausdorff metric.	aus	The University of Queensland Press	2007	1.01	Bulletin of the Australian Mathematical Society	0.297	0.623
1130710	Forest biomonitoring of the largest Slovene thermal power plant with respect to reduction of air pollution	The condition of the forest ecosystem in the vicinity of the largest Slovene power plant [the Šoštanj Thermal Power Plant (ŠTPP)] was monitored during the period 1991-2008 by determining the total concentration of sulphur, ascorbic acid and chlorophyll in Norway spruce needles. After 1995, the introduction ofcleaning devices at the ŠTPP dramatically reduced the former extremely high SO2 and dust emissions. The most significant findings of this comprehensive, long-duration survey are as follows: (1) the chosen parameters are suitable bioindicators of stress caused by air pollution in Norway spruce needles; theyreflect both spatial and temporal variations in air pollution as well as the degree of efficiency of the cleaning devices; (2) observations show that the physiological condition of Norway spruce in northern Slovenia has significantly improved since 1995, when the first desulphurization device at ŠTPP was built, together with a reduction in the area influenced by pollution from ŠTPP; (3) metabolic processes in spruce needles react to air pollution according to the severity of the pollution and the length of exposure; exposure to high SO2 ambient levels and/or spread over a long duration can damage the antioxidant defence mechanisms of spruce trees as well as diminishing the concentration of ascorbic acid; (4) a reduction in the exposure to air pollution improves the vitality of the trees (e.g. higher concentrations of total (aŽ+Žb) chlorophyll), as well as restoring their defence capabilities as shown by higher concentrations of ascorbic acid; and (5) forest monitoring should be continued and focused on integrating the effects of multiple stressors, which can additionally affect a forest ecosystem.	nld	Reidel	2012	1.01	Environmental monitoring and assessment	1.400	1.997
11312918	Modelling of fastener flexibility in CFRP strengthened timber-framed walls using modified [gamma]-method	The paper provides semi-analytical modelling for prefabricated timber-framed walls using the modified ?$/gamma$?-method. The walls are composed of a timber frame and gypsum plasterboards (GPB) which are flexibly connected to the timber frame. Because the tensile strength of the GPB is approximately 10-times lower than the compressive one, it is convenient to strengthen the boards in their tensile diagonal direction with carbon fibre-reinforced polymer (CFRP) strips, which are glued to the boards. Additionally, in the proposed mathematical model the classical beam theory is used taking into account a fasteners' flexibility in the timber frame - GPB connecting area, as well as crack appearing in the GPB and an influence of the inserted CFRP strips. Therefore the CFRP strip contribution is considered with a modified slip modulus which results in the fictive increased stiffness coefficient of the fasteners.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2008	1.01	Engineering structures	1.102	0.815
11316507	Towards the effective tool wear control in micro-EDM milling	The electrode wear in micro-electrical discharge milling (micro-EDM milling) is one of the main problems to be solved in order to improve machining accuracy. This paper presents an investigation on wear and material removal inmicro-EDM milling for selected process parameter combinations typical of rough and finish machining of micro-features in steel. The experiments were performed on state-of-the-art micro-EDM equipment. Based on discharge countingand volume measurements, electrode wear per discharge and material removal per discharge were measured for several energy levels. The influence of the accuracy of volume measurements on the electrode wear per discharge and on the material removal per discharge are discussed, and the issues limiting the applicability of real time wear sensing in micro-EDM milling are presented.	gbr	IFS Publications	2010	1.01	International journal, advanced manufacturing technology	1.068	1.019
11323158	Time and space-efficient architecture for a corpus-based text-to-speech synthesis system	This paper proposes a time and space-efficient architecture for a text-to-speech synthesis system (TTS). The proposed architecture can be efficiently used in those applications with unlimited domain, requiring multilingual or polyglot functionality. The integration of a queuing mechanism, heterogeneous graphs and finite-state machines gives a powerful, reliable and easily maintainable architecture for the TTS system. Flexible and language-independent framework efficiently integrates all those algorithms used within the scope of the TTS system. Heterogeneous relation graphs are used for linguistic information representation and feature construction. Finite-state machines are used for time and space-efficient representation of language resources, for time and space-efficient lookup processes, and the separation of language-dependent resources from a language-independent TTS engine. Its queuing mechanism consists of several dequeue data structures and is responsible for the activation of all those TTS engine modules having to process the input text. In the proposed architecture, all modules use the same data structure for gathering linguistic information about input text. All input and output formats are compatible, the structure is modular and interchangeable, it is easily maintainable and object oriented. The proposed archi-tecture was successfully used when implementing the Slovenian PLA TTOS corpus-based TTS system, as pre sen ted in this paper.	nld	North-Holland	2007	1.01	Speech communication	0.690	1.012
11326747	A review of magnetic refrigerator and heat pump prototypes built before the year 2010	Magnetic refrigeration, heating and power conversion technologies are interesting alternatives to the conventional refrigeration, heat pumping and different conventional energy conversion technologies. At present they all show a realistic potential to enter conventional markets, respectively to be applied in a few years. In this review paper, mainly magnetic refrigeration and magnetic heating are addressed and from these two technologies the main part is dedicated to magnetic refrigeration at room temperature. This article covers the demand of giving a complete list and description of existing magnetic heating and cooling prototypes up to the year 2010. Forty-one machines, their components and operation principles are presented in detail.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2010	1.01	International journal of refrigeration	1.439	0.909
11336982	Prediction of stress relaxation of fabrics with increased elasticity	The present study investigated stress relaxation in fabrics with increased elasticity. For prediction of the degree of stress relaxation the frequently used mechanical models reported in the literature were analyzed. The mechanical models which were used in this paper were: Maxwellæs model, the two-component Maxwellæs model, the modified model of standard linear solid, Alfreyæs model and the three-component Maxwellæs model with nonlinear spring for explaining the 1 hour relaxation curve and the 24 hour relaxation curve. The results of the study show that it is hard to precisely predict the value of stress after 24 hours using the model that was built up based on the 1 hourexperimental curve. When comparing the experimental relaxation curve with the fitted curve from the mechanical model it is clear that the models with higher component values explain the experimental relaxation curve better. The weak point of those models was the high number of local minima which makes it difficult to find the global minimum.	usa	Sage Publications	2006	1.01	Textile research journal	0.578	0.597
1133704	The effect of different quantities and compositions of pelleted diets of immune response of mares during the production of anti-tatanus sera	Research was carried out into the effect that different quantities and compositions of concentrated portions of meal had on certain haematological properties and on the immune response of mares in the course of hyper-immune antitetanus sera production. The experiment involved 24 Nonius and Lipizzaner cros-bred mares divided into two groups of 12 animals each, a control group and a trial group. The experiment lasted 12 months, with haemoatological and immunoloical tesets being carried out every 30 days. During the course of the experiment each mare was subjected to 11 immunisation cycles, and in that period no mare fell ill. Leukocyte and haematocrit counts revealed no differences between the control and the test groups throughout the entire duration of the experiment. Following the second immunisation cycle the leukocyte count increased in both groups of mares, remaining significantly hiher than the normal physiological value in horses throughout the experiment.The concentrated portion of meal, differing both in quality and quantity, had no influence on leucocyte count and haematocrit level in the mares throughout the experiment. However, the immunodiffusion titre in the test group did show a slightly higher value of ID-titre than in the control group, indicating that the quantitatively and qalitatitively differing portions of meal had a more positive effect on immune response and anti-tetanus anti-bodytitre in the test group than it did in the control group.	deu	Paul Parey	2001	1.01	Berliner und Münchener Tierärztliche Wochenschrift	0.530	0.603
11337494	The effect of small flaws on the fatigue strength of HAZ at the weld toe	The effects of small artificial surface flaws on the fatigue strength of HAZ material are studied. The samples of coarse grain HAZ material were prepared using a welding thermal-cycle simulator. The artificial flaws were produced byindenting with a Vickers pyramid at different loads as either single indentations or as a series. The size of the flaws did not exceed the primary austenitic grain size of the material, which is the most relevant microstructural unit of carbon steels. The dependence of the experimentally determined bending fatigue strength of treated coarse grain HAZ materials on the properly evaluated size of the artificial flaws was compared with the law of long-crack propagation. The biggest flaws evaluated with the flaw-size parameter ?area ? 100 m are still small for the studied coarse grain HAZ. In further experimental work, the effects of flaw size and the effects of residual stresses should be analysed separately.	che	Inderscience Enterprises	2007	1.01	International journal of materials & product technology	0.203	1.682
11338262	Application of HPLC with electrochemical detection for the determination of low levels of antioxidants	This article presents a newly developed method for the determination of low levels of antioxidants, present in meat and meat products. The method is a high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), using coulometric electrochemical detector. An oil soluble antioxidant, carnosic acid, extractedfrom rosemary was used as a target compound.. Usual dosage of carnosic acid as an antioxidant in meat and meat products is 0.0040% (40 mg/kg), calculated on fat content. The ability to accurately measure low levels of antioxidants in food would be of great advantage to the food industry, because it would improve the process of partitioning of antioxidantsin to food system, which would lead to improved food stability and better prediction of its shelf life. The selectivity and sensitivity of the coulometric array are the key properties that were required for the analysis presented in this article. A coulometric technique is well suited for the determination of low levels of analyte and is one of the most sensitive analytical approaches available today.	nld	Academic Press	2007	1.01	Journal of food composition and analysis	2.106	1.15
11338518	The Hosoya-Wiener polynomial of weighted trees	Formulas for the Wiener number and the Hosoya-Wiener polynomial of edge and vertex weighted graphs are given in terms of edge and path contributions. For a rooted tree, the Hosoya-Wiener polynomial is expressed as a sum of vertex contributions. Finally, a recursive formula for computing the Hosoya-Wiener polynomial of a weighted tree is given.	hrv	Hrvatsko kemijsko društvo	2007	1.01	Croatica chemica acta	0.606	2.086
11339542	A multilevel MINLP methodology for the approximate stochastic synthesis of flexible chemical processes	This work present a methodology for the optimal design and MINLP synthesis of flexible chemical processes with known probability distributions of uncertain parameters. This methodology comprises synthesis at 1) non-flexible nominallevel, 2) flexible nominal level, and 3) approximate stochastic flexible level. The first level is concerned with modelling challanges od lsarge process flow sheets, sensitivity analyses and studies of uncertsain parameters. This level ususally results in non-flexible design. Second and third levels take into account flexibility requirements by adding critical points into the model. Both flexible levels rely on considerable reduction of discrete points. Lower levels provide good starting structures for higher levels, therefore, the computational effort is reduced and larger problems with many uncertain parameters, e.g. 10 to 100, can be solved. The use of this methodology is illustrated by the synthesis of a flexiblw heat-integrated methanol process flow sheet.	rou	Syscom 18.	2007	1.01	Revista de chimie	0.261	1.015
11344089	Cells producting cathepsins D, B, and L in human breast carcinoma and their association with prognosis	Lysosomal proteinases, cathepsins D, B, and L have been associated with malignant tumor progression and with prognosis in various human carcinomas. Inthe current study, the immunohistochemical localization of cathepsins in tumor cells was correlated with cathepsin protein concentration in breast carcinoma cytosols from 77 patients. Significant correlation was found for cathepsin D (P <.041) and borderline correlation for cathepsin B (P < .055) but not for cathepsin L. We hypothesize that the poor correlation of cysteine cathepsins was attributable to the fact that they were present not only in malignant epithelial cells, but also in infiltrating macrophages and stromal fibroblasts. In addition, tumor-surrounding myoepithelial cells (42% of tumors) and myofibroblasts (26% of tumors) as well as endothelial cells of neovasculature (10% of tumors) all stained specifically for cathepsin B. Two thirds of tumors co- expressed cathepsins B and L in tumor cells, whereas only17% of tumors co- expressed all 3 cathepsins. Intense immunostaining for cathepsin B of tumor cells was observed in tumors at high TNM stage and tumorshaving positive lymph nodes. The expression of cathepsin B was independent of established prognostic factors, whereas intense cathepsin L staining in tumor cells was associated with high histological grade. With respect to prognosis of patient survival, only tumorcell-associated cathepsin D (P = .042) and myoepithelial cellassociated cathepsin B (P= .061) showed borderline significance. Cathepsins B and L immunostaining in tumor cells was not prognostic. In contrast, cytosolic levels of cathepsin B correlated with higher rate of relapse. Taken together, these results show the diversity in the cellular distribution of cathepsins in human breast carcinoma, presumably reflecting specific regulation and function of each of the cathepsins during tumor progression.	usa	W. B. Saunders Co.	2000	1.01	Human pathology	2.906	1.578
11348246	Influence of biodiesel fuel on the combustion and emission formation in a direct injection (DI) Diesel engine	This paper studies the influence of biodiesel fuel on the combustion and emission formation of two different direct-injected diesel engines, both employing different combustion processes. The research was focused on determining the influence of the specific combustion process on measurement results to ascertain if a generalization of the results is possible or whetherthey have to be interpreted as specific for specific engines. Standard D2 diesel fuel and commercial 100% biodiesel fuel were used. Tests were executed using both fuels under the same conditions, and exhaust emissions andengine performance were measured and compared. In-cylinder pressure was also acquired, and the rate of heat release curves were computed by means of azero-dimensional, one-zone combustion model. Some macroparameters of the combustion process were obtained from the heat-release-rate curves. The results obtained for both engines showed that findings regarding the influenceof biodiesel fuel on the combustion process and emission formation could not be generalized and had to be interpreted as specific for the particular engine.	usa	The Society	2007	1.01	Energy & fuels	1.679	1.015
11350043	The influence of surface topology on the accuracy of laser triangulation scanning results	This paper discusses the influence of surface topology on the accuracy of laser triangulation scanning results. Scanning distance and scanning angle of impact laser beam was found to be the most crucial interaction between the surface topology and scanning process. Therefore, we focused these two parameters while other parameters like microstructure, colour of surface, optical settings remained fixed. Despite of random nature of freeform surfaces, the measurements were systematic, according to the principles of thedesign of experiment (DOE) adjusting angle and distance in the whole scanning range. Based on the results of this research and prior estimation of surface complexity, an implication or working area range prediction, as well as the determination of optimal set of influence parameters inside this particular working area can be done.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2010	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.466	0.909
11350294	The impact of structure on the undrained shear strength of cohesive soils	The relationship between the undrained shear strength and the water content ofcohesive soils can be described with a two parameter non-linear function. Parameter a is the water content at the undrained shear strength su=1 kPa, andb is the slope of the linear function which represents the ratio between the water content logarithm and the undrained shear strength logarithm. These parameters depend mainly on the type and amount of clay minerals in the soils,the particle sizes and shapes, their arrangements, the forces between the clay particles, and the chemical composition of the pore water. The impactof quantity, type and size of clay grains on the water content at a uniform undrained shear strength in different soils has been studied previously, whilst the impact of structure is less understood. Particle associations and arrangements (i.e. fabric), and the interparticle forces determine the structure of soil. This paper focuses on an investigation of therelationship between water content and undrained shear strength in kaolinite samples with different structures. The various arrangements of clay particles that resulted from the changed of interparticle forces were obtainedby salt addition (NaCl). Microfabrics of wet kaolinite samples were studied using a field emission scanning electron microscope. The results showed that clay structure exerts a strong influence on the relationship between the quantity of water and undrained shear strength. This was reflectedin the values of both soil-dependent parameters, a and b. Values of parameter a varied between 39.16% and 62.96%, and b between 0.100 and 0.139, for well crystallized kaolinite with salt concentrations of 0- 175 mmol/l. Forpoorly crystallized kaolinite with salt concentrations of 0-300 mmol/l, thevalues of a range between 46.96% and 100.30%, and b between 0.090% and 0.148%.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Engineering geology	0.951	0.763
11356699	Oil- and water-based continuous control valve	Environmental protection regulations are becoming increasingly strict. Using water instead of a hydraulic mineral or biodegradable oil in power-control hydraulic systems is a very positive step towards complying with these regulations. Since water hydraulics has many specifics, primarily related to lower viscosity and lubricity of water compared to oil, which greatly affects the leakage, and even more the friction and wear in these systems, a dedicatedtest rig is required for performing research with the real-scale components. The purpose of this paper is to present some preliminary representative results on dynamic responses of the two hydraulic circuits with and without a mass load.	gbr	Peterson Publishing Co	2010	1.01	Industrial Lubrication and Tribology	0.397	0.909
11361558	Measuring the intellectual capital of international carriers as logistic operators	In enterprises, knowledge has become the capital that helps achieve competitive advantage on the market. The field of intellectual capital is very complex, and therefore difficult to measure. The purpose of this paper is to explore the impact of intellectual capital on the success of logictic companies, to present theoretical characteristics of logistic capital in a simple way, and to give important guidelines for logictics.	hrv	Fakultet prometnih znanosti;Fakulteta za pomorstvo in promet;Universita degli studi di Trieste, Istituto per lo studio dei transporti nell'integrazione economica europea;Fakultet za saobraèaj i komunikacije;Fakulta prevadzky a ekonomiky dopravy a spojov;Dopravni fakulta Jana Pernera	2007	1.03	Promet	0.072	1.07
113659	Determination of P(c [to] D[sup]*+) and BR (c [to] l[sup]+) at LEP 1	The probability P(c [to]D[sup]*+) that a charm quark fragments into a D[sup]*+ meson and the c [to] l[sup]+ semileptonic branching fraction were measured in Z[sup]0 decay into cc[bar] events. From the analysis of 3.5 Million Z[sup]0 events collected from 1992 to 1995, a sample of charm meson decays with 81% cc[bar] purity was selected. The product of the c [to] D[sup]*+ fragmentation probability times the D[sup]*+ [to] D[sup]0 [pi][sup]+ branching fraction was measured to be: P(c [to] D[sup]*+) [times] BR(D[sup]*+ [to] D[sup]0 [pi][sup]+) = 0.174 [plus minus] 0.010(stat) [plus minus] 0.004(syst). Using the world averaged value for BR(D[sup]*+ [to] D[sup]0 [pi][sup]+), the fragmentation probability is inferred: P(c [to] D[sup]*+) = 0.255 [plus minus] 0.015(stat) [plus minus] 0.006(syst) [plus minus] 0.005(syst.BR). From the same sample, 1828 [plus minus] 51 identified leptons in the opposite hemisphere were selected. From this sample, the charm semileptonic branching fraction was measured to be: BR(c [to] l[sup]+) = 0.0958 [plus minus] 0.0042(stat) [plus minus] 0.0028(syst).	deu	Springer	2000	1.01	The European physical journal	5.408	1.99
11365977	On 2-groups with submultiplicative spectrum	A group ?${\cal G}$? of complex square invertible matrices is said to have submultiplicative spectrum if for any ?$G, H$? in ?${\cal G}$? we have that ?$\sigma(GH) \subset \sigma(G)\sigma(H)$?, where ?$\sigma(G)$? denotes the spectrum of ?$G$?. The question whether such a group can be irreducible arises in the study of the structure of matrix semigroups and is answered in the positive for groups with odd exponent (cf. Radjavi and Rosenthal, Simultaneous Triangularization, Springer, New York, 1999). Here we consider the most important remaining case, namely 2-groups with submultiplicative spectrum. If there is an element in the group of the kind whose determinant has order equal to either the exponent or half of the exponent of the group, then the group is reducible. We give an example of an irreducible group of the kind such that the order of determinant of every element equals one quarter of the exponent of the group.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Journal of Pure and Applied Algebra	0.400	0.504
11367769	On a theorem of Jaworowski on locally equivariant contractible spaces	Ancel's method of fiberwise trivial relations is applied to the problem of characterization of absolute equivariant extensors. We obtain a genaralization of Jaworowski's theorem of characterization of equivariant extensors lying in ?$\RR^n$? to the case when the space is infinite-dimensional, has infinitely many orbit types and the acting compact group ?$G$? is not necessarily a Lie group.	usa	American Mathematical Society	2002	1.01	Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society	0.334	0.504
11369992	Differences in EEG power and coherence measures related to the type of presentation	This study investigated the cognitive processes of students while learning physics using EEG methodology. Forty students (20 experts, and 20 novices in the domain of physics) learned material presented by text and in a computer supported multimedia format while their EEG was recorded. Alpha power measures which are inversely related to mental effort as well as coherence measures that provide information about the cooperation between brain areas were analyzed. The results taken altogether suggest that learning the multimedia lessons was rather demanding, yet provoked less transfer of information between brain areas and had no beneficial influence on the amount of learned material. Another finding was that experts in the domain of physics learned more than did novices, regardless of the type of presentation. EEG patterns differed mainly in the lower alpha band, thus pointing to the superior control of attentional processes in experts	usa	Baywood Pub. Co.	2001	1.01	Journal of educational computing research	0.125	0.534
11371542	Fuzzy logic based quality monitoring in short-circuit gas metal arc welding	Conventional methods, e.g. destructive and non-destructive testing methods, are expensive and time-consuming; therefore, possibilities of online and automated quality control of a welding process during welding as such are investigated. The paper deals with the possibilities of application of fuzzy logic to the analysis of weld quality, particularly assessment of the weld surface condition by means of measurable electric signals emitted during welding. A simple fuzzy inference system was realised which could relatively efficiently assess the weld quality on the basis of time variations of the welding voltage and short-circuit time in a certain time window.	che	Inderscience Enterprises	2007	1.01	International journal of materials & product technology	0.203	1.682
1137244	Heterogeneous photocatalytic decomposition of halosubstituted benzyl alcohols on semiconductor particles in aqueous media	The photodegradation of 2-, 3- and 4-halosubstituted benzyl alcohols (HBAs) on semiconductive oxides (TiO2, ZnO) was studied. It was found out that the photodegradation rate increases from the fluoro to bromo derivates in the caseof 2- and 4HBAs, whereas in the case of 3-HBAs the reverse trend was observed.	gbr	Pergamon Press.	2000	1.01	Chemosphere	1.033	0.963
11376667	Elasto-plastic springback of beams subjected to repeated bending/unbending histories	This contribution investigated repeated elastoplastic pure plane bending/unbending process of beams made of material with an elastic-linear hardening rheological model. The attention is focused on beams with cross sections which have at least one axis of symmetry and are initially straigh orhave constant radius of curvature. Elastoplastic deflection states of beams after repeated bending/unbending process are determined using the large displacement theory. Experiments were conducted to verify the theory for beamsmade of aluminium alloy AA 5050-H38 with rectangular cross sections. It is shown that maximal relative difference between experimental and theoreticalresults in the case of a largely curved beams after repeated bending/unbending process is 1.27%.	usa	ASM International	2011	1.01	Journal of materials engineering and performance	0.855	2.296
11377625	Electrical thresholds for biomechanical response in the ankle to direct stimulation of spinal roots L4, L5, and S1	Study Design. A comparison of electrical thresholds for biomechanical responsein the ankle and for evoked electromyographic signals from specific leg muscles during intraoperative extradural direct stimulation of roots L4, L5, and S1. Objective. To determine whether a biomechanical response in the ankle to direct root stimulation occurs before evoked electromyographic signals and to determine differences in electrical excitability of the roots circumferentially. Summary of Background Data. Stimulus intensities of 1.2 - 5.7 mA are reported to evoke electromyographic response in corresponding muscles to direct stimulation of normal roots. Stimulus intensities of 6-8 mA were suggested to detect bony pedicular compromise by stimulation of a hole ora screw during pedicle instrumentation. Electrical thresholds of three-dimensional torque response in the ankle to direct root stimulation havenot yet been evaluated and compared with thresholds of evoked electromyogram. Methods. Direct monopolar stimulation of the surgically exposed roots L4, L5, and S1 was performed from different sites around the root by a cuff multielectrode. Biomechanical response was measured as an isometric torque in the ankle at each of three orthogonal axes. Compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) from rootspecific muscles were detected by a pair of surface or wire electrodes. Results: Mean threshold for biomechanical response in the ankle to stimulation of roots L4, L5, and S1 was 0.72 +- 0.39 mA and for CMAP response was 1.09 mA +- 0.36 (N = 13). Thresholds for biomechanical responses were significantly lower than for CMAP responses (P = 0.0004; paired t test). Nerve roots were electrically most excitable on their ventral aspects. Conclusion. (Abstract truncated at 2000 characters.)	usa	Medical Dept., Harper & Row Publishers.	2000	1.01	Spine	1.843	0.822
11377881	Fiber types in the mouse levator auris longus muscle	The histochemical composition of the levator auris longus (LAL) muscle has been investigated in adult NMRi mice. Histochemical reaction for myofibrillar adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) after preincubation in alkaline and acidic media, nicotine amideadenine-dinucleotide dehydrogenase (NADH-dehydrogenase), and alphaglycerophosphate dehydrogenase were performed on cryosections of LAL muscle. Expression of myosin heavy chain (MyHC) isoforms was detected with theimmunoperoxidase method applying monoclonal antibodies against MyHC isoforms - 1, -2a, -2x/d, and -2b, as well as by sodium dodecylsulfate (SDS) glycerol gel electrophoresis. The muscle was proven to be a pure fast-twitch muscle. The most numerous fibers in LAL muscles contained MyHC-2b and some MyHC-2a. Histochemically, pure IIA fibers with oxidative metabolism and pure IIB fibers with glycolytic metabolism were detected. In contrast to the majority of mature control muscles, numerous hybrid fibers coexpressing MyHC-2x/d with MyHC-2a or MyHC-2b were present. Both hybrids were oxidativeglycolytic; additionally, some hybrids containing MyHC-2a were oxidative. In one out of six muscles, traces of MyHC-1 were detected both withimmunoperoxidase staining and with SDS glycerol gel electrophoresis. Rare fibers that exceptionally expressed small amounts of MyHC-1 always coexpressedMyHC-2a, which is an additional proof that pure type I fibers do not exist in LAL. Due to these histochemical characteristics and to its previously described morphological features, the use of the LAL muscle as a model for various studies, particularly muscle and nerve interactions, is emphasized.	usa	Liss	2000	1.01	Journal of neuroscience research	3.207	2.536
11378137	Variation and trends in incidence of childhood diabetes in Europe	Background. To study the epidemiology of childhood-onset type 1 insulin-dependent diabetes in Europe, the EURODIAB collaborative group established in 1988 prospective geographically-defined registers of new cases diagnosed under 15 years of age. This report is based on 16 362 cases registered during the period 1989-94 by 44 centres representing most European countries and Israel and covering a population of about 28 million children. Methods. Multiple sources of ascertainment were used in most centres to validate the compieteness of registration by the capture-recapture method. Trends in incidence during the period were analysed by Poisson regression, thedata from centres within each country being pooled. Findings. The standardised average annual incidence rate during the period 1989-94 ranged from 3,2 cases per 100 000 per year in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to 40.2 cases per 100 000 per year in two regions of Finland. By pooling over all centres, the annual rate of increase in incidence was 3.4% (95% CI 2.5-4.4%), but in some central European countries it was more rapid than this. Pooled over centres and sexes, the rates of increase were 6.3% (4.1-8.5%) for children aged 0-4 years, 3.1% (1.5-4.8%) for 5-9 years, and 2.4% (1.0-3.8%) for 10-14 years. Interpretation. The results confirm a very wide range of incidence rates within Europe and show that the increase in incidence during the period varied from country to country. The rapid rate of increase in children aged under 5 years is of particular concern.	gbr	Lancet Publishing Group	2000	1.01	The Lancet	10.232	1.695
11381849	On stability of invariant subspaces of commuting matrices	We study the stability of (joint) invariant subspaces of a finite set of commuting matrices. We generalize some of the results of Gohberg, Lancaster, and Rodman for the single matrix case. For sets of two or more commuting matrices we exhibit some phenomena different from the single matrix case. We show that each root subspace is a stable invariant subspace, that each invariant subspace of a root subspace of a nonderogatory eigenvalue is stable, and that, even in the deragotory case, the eigenspace is stable if it is one-dimensional. We prove that a pair of commuting matrices has only finitely many stable invariant subspaces. At the end, we discuss the stability of invariant subspaces of an algebraic multiparameter eigenvalue problem.	usa	North Holland	2002	1.01	Linear Algebra and its Applications	0.462	0.679
11382105	Improved lower bound on the Shannon capacity of C [sub] 7	An independent set with 108 vertices in the strong product of four 7-cycles ?$(C_7 \sqtimes C_7 \sqtimes C_7 \sqtimes C_7)$? is given. This improves the best known lower bound for the Shannon capacity of the graph ?$C_7$? which is the zero-error capacity of the corresponding noisy channel. The search was done by a computer program using the ""simulated annealing"" algorithm with a constant time temperature schedule.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Information processing letters	0.331	0.821
11382361	Stability of disjointness preserving mappings	Let ?$X$? and ?$Y$? be a compact Hausdorff spaces and let ?$\varepsilon \ge 0$?. A linear mapping ?$\Phi: \cal{C}(X) \to \cal{C}(Y)$? is called ?$\varepsilon$?-disjointness preserving, if ?$fg=0$?, implies that ?$\|\Phi(f) \Phi(g)\| \le \varepsilon \|f\| \|g\|$?. If ?$\Phi: \cal{C}(X) \to \cal{C}(Y)$? is a continuous or surjective ?$\varepsilon$?-disjointness preserving linear mapping, we prove that there exist a disjoinness preserving linear mapping ?$\Psi: \cal{C}(X) \to \cal{C}(Y)$? satisfying ?$\|\Phi(f) - \Psi(f)\| \le 20 \sqrt{\varepsilon} \|f\|$?. We also prove that the every unbounded ?$\varepsilon$?-disjointness preserving linear functional on ?$\cal{C}(X)$? is disjointness preserving.	usa	American Mathematical Society	2002	1.01	Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society	0.334	0.504
11384347	Metal-doped (Ti, WC) diamond-like-carbon coatings: Reactions with extreme-pressure oil additives under tribological and static conditions	In contrast to non-doped diamond-like-carbon (DLC) coatings, reliable chemical evidence of the reactions between metal-doped DLC coatings and oil additives under tribological conditions using state-of-the-art surface-sensitive chemical analyses is still scarce. In this study we have investigated the reactivity of metal-doped (Ti, WC) DLC coatings with the extreme-pressure (EP) dialkyl dithiophosphate additive - without the presence of a steel counter body in the contact that befogs the actual coating reactions. Static ""reactivity"" experiments without any tribological or mechanical effects were also performed to provide a further insight into the lubrication mechanisms. The results confirmed the chemical reactions between the EP additive and all the DLC coatings, as well as their oxidation during the tribological contacts. We measured an about 10-times higher chemical activitz (a 25-fold P/S ratio increase) for the Ti-doped DLC compared to the WC-doped or non-doped DLC, which also agrees with it having the lowest amount of wear in this study. We suggest that the Ti-DLC boundary lubrication is achieved via binding sites at the O vacancies present in the Ti-doped DLC coating. The data also clearly show, in contrast to most of literature reports, that even though small, some direct chemical activity between the W-DLC and the dialkyl dithiophosphate EP additive is also possible without any iron catalytic effect. However, the chemical changes were significantly smaller, also allowing coating graphitization, which might be one of the reasons for the 50% higher wear of the WC-doped compared to the Ti-doped DLC.	che	Elsevier Sequoia	2010	1.01	Thin Solid Films	1.909	1.159
11385366	Large vocabulary continuous speech recognition of an inflected language using stems and endings	In this article, we focus on creating a large vocabulary speech recognition system for the Slovenian language. Currently, state-of-theart recognition systems are able to use vocabularies with sizes of 20,000 to 100,000 words. These systems have mostly been developed for English, which belongs to a group of uninflectional languages. Slovenian, as a Slavic language, belongs to a group of inflectional languages. Its rich morphology presents a major problem in large vocabulary speech recognition. Compared to English, the Slovenian language requires a vocabulary approximately 10 times greater for the same degree of text coverage. Consequently, the difference in vocabulary size causes a high degree of OOV (out-of-vocabulary words). Therefore OOV words have a direct impact on recognizer efficiency. The characteristics of inflectional languages have been considered when developing a new search algorithm with a method for restricting the correct order of sub-word units, and to use separate language models based on sub-words. This search algorithm combines the properties of sub-word-based models (reduced OOV) and word-based models (the length of context). The algorithm also enables better search-spacelimitation for sub-word models. Using sub-word models, we increase recognizer accuracy and achieve a comparable search space to that of a standard word-based recognizer. Our methods were evaluated in experiments on a SNABI speech database.	nld	North-Holland	2007	1.01	Speech communication	0.690	1.012
11385622	A comprehensive noise robust speech parameterization algorithm using wavelet packet decomposition-based denoising and speech feature representation techniques	This paper concerns the problem of automatic speech recognition in noise-intense and adverse environments. The main goal of the proposed work is the definition, implementation, and evaluation of a novel noise robust speech signal parameterization algorithm. The proposed procedure is based on time-frequency speech signal representation using wavelet packet decomposition. A new modified soft thresholding algorithm based on time-frequency adaptive threshold determination was developed to efficiently reduce the level of additive noise in the input noisy speech signal. A two-stage Gaussian mixture model (GMM)-based classifier was developed to perform speech/nonspeech as well as voiced/unvoiced classification. The adaptive topology of the wavelet packet decomposition tree based on voiced/unvoiced detection was introduced to separately analyze voiced and unvoiced segments of the speech signal. The main feature vector consists of a combination of log-root compressed wavelet packet parameters, and autoregressive parameters. The final output feature vector is produced using a two-staged feature vector postprocessing procedure. In the experimental framework, the noisy speech databases Aurora 2 and Aurora 3 were applied together with corresponding standardized acoustical model training/testing procedures. The automatic speech recognition performance achieved using the proposed noise robust speech parameterization procedure was compared to the standardized mel-frequency cepstral coefficient (MFCC) feature extraction procedures ETSI ES 201 108 and ETSI ES 202 050.	egy	Hindawi Publishing Corporation	2007	1.01	EURASIP journal on advances in signal processing	0.619	0.927
1138569	Effect of oxalic, acetic acid, and ammonia on leaching of Cr and Cu from preserved wood	Wood treated with CCB (chromated copper borate) has an expected service life of 20-50 years, depending on conditions of service and method of treatment. After this period, treated wood is discarded as special waste. Due to toxic elements (Cu, Cr, and B) in such treated wood, burning and landfill disposal are not considered as environmentally sound solutions. Chemical extraction seems more promising. The principle of the method is to convert fixed biocides in wood into soluble form and leach them out of the wood. In order to elucidate this process, copper(II) sulfate, potassium dichromate, and CCB-treated samples were leached using five different agents, namely, water, an aqueous solution of oxalic or acetic acid, and an aqueous solution of oxalic or acetic acid with ammonia. Afterwards, the amounts of leached copper and chromium were determined. In a parallel experiment, electron paramagnetic resonance measurements of wet- and dry-leached and unleached samples were performed in order to determine the paramagnetic complexes that were formed. The highest chromium leaching was achieved with the aqueous solution of oxalic acid, as chromium was converted into water-soluble chromium oxalate. While the mixture of oxalic acid and ammonia resulted in the highest copper leaching, EPR observation revealed that in this case water-soluble complexes of copper, oxalic acid, and ammonia were formed. We found out that oxalates formation is not the only mechanism responsible for copper or chromium leaching. High acidity may play an important role too.	deu	Springer	2004	1.01	Wood Science and Technology	0.803	0.492
11386907	Method for modifying axial fan's guard grill and its impact on operating characteristics	This paper presents the impact of guard grill on aerodynamic integral characteristic, the spectrum of sound pressure level and total sound power level at four characteristic operating points of axial fans with standard guard grill, with optimized guard grill and without guard grill. The study of guard grills impact was conducted with measurements at integral level and local outflow velocity field of the axial fan without guard grill. The measurement results of the local outflow velocity field of the axial fan without guard grill at optimal operating point were used to model the optimized guard grill contour. The guard grill of axial fan has a significant impact on aerodynamic integral characteristic at free flow and mostly used operating region. The influence of guard grill is also characteristically reflected in the spectrum of sound pressure level via vortex shedding frequency and consequently at total sound power level of compared axial fans.	deu	VDI-Verlag GmbH	2010	1.01	Forschung im Ingenieurwesen	0.348	0.826
1138793	Variable structure pantograph mechanism with spring suspension system for comprehensive upper-limb haptic movement training	Numerous haptic devices have been developed for upper-limb neurorehabilitation, but their widespread use has been largely impeded because of complexity and cost. Here, we describe a variable structure pantograph mechanism combined with a spring suspension system that produces a versatile rehabilitation robot, called Universal Haptic Pantograph, for movement training of the shoulder, elbow, and wrist. The variable structure is a 5-degree-of-freedom (DOF) mechanism composed of 7 joints, 11 joint axes, and 3 configurable joint locks that reduce the number of system DOFs to between 0 and 3. The resulting device has eight operational modes: Arm, Wrist, ISO (isometric) 1, ISO 2, Reach, Lift 1, Lift 2, and Steer. The combination of available work spaces (reachable areas) shows a high suitability for movement training of most upper-limb activities of daily living. The mechanism, driven by series elastic actuators, performs similarly in all operational modes, with a single control scheme and set of gains. Thus, a single device with minimal setup changes can be used to treat a variety of upper-limb impairments that commonly afflict veterans with stroke, traumatic brain injury, or other direct trauma to the arm. With appropriately selected design parameters, the developed multimode haptic device significantly reduces the costs of robotic hardware for full-arm rehabilitation while performing similarly to that of single-mode haptic devices. We conducted case studies with three patients with stroke who underwent clinical training using the developed mechanism in Arm, Wrist, and/or Reach operational modes. We assessed outcomes using Fugl-Meyer Motor Assessment and Wolf Motor Function Test scores showing that upper-limb ability improved significantly following training sessions.	usa	Rehabilitation Research and Development Service, Dept. of Veterans Affairs	2011	1.01	Journal of rehabilitation research and development	1.779	1.201
11388699	Effect of different production phases on residual stress field in double-layer cast rolls	The aim of this investigation was to determine the effect of different production operations and parameters on residual stress level in double-layer cast rolls. Using a hole-drilling method, residual stress depth distribution in surface layer was measured around and along the body of the double-layer cast roll after casting, heat treatment, turning and grinding. Furthermore, using different turning and grinding parameters (speed, feed), and heat treatment parameters (temperature, time), influence of these parameters on residual stress level and distribution was determined. Results of the investigation show that the conditions in the casting pit have an influence onthe residual stress field generated in double-layer cast rolls, with surfaces exposed to faster cooling rates in general showing higher residual stress values. Very critical phase in rolls production is coarse grinding, which if not carried out properly will generate very high tensile stresses in the roll surface and cause surface cracking or even roll fracture. Heat treatment on the other hand results in uniform compressive residual stress field in the roll's surface. However, reduction in tempering time and especially increase in hardening temperature lead to increased residual stresslevel in the roll surface. Final machining of the roll surface further influences residual stress level in the roll. Increase in turning speed of up to 40% results in compressive residual stress increase of up to 60%, while less than 30% increase in feeding rate gives almost 100% increase in residual stress level.	nld	Elsevier	2010	1.01	Journal of materials processing technology	1.567	1.019
1139081	Model for classifying wood products according to environment burdening during the process of manufacturing	Orientation towards environment-friendly production and such products as will be acceptable for the environment, in addition to the existing economic criteria, has become a necessity and one of the very important strategic goals of wood industry. In the article is described the model for classifying wood products according to their environment burdening during the manufacturing process. The aim of the model generation was to include the most important criteria of environment burdening appearing in wood industry and on the basis of these criteria to calculate the uniform estimate of environment burdening. With a generated mathematical model we gradually proceed from the entry criteria to the final estimate of environment burdening of a specific product, which enables us not only to calculate the final estimate but also to analyse and to present the differences among products at all levels of the decision tree.	svk	Alfa	2003	1.01	Drevársky výskum	0.091	0.437
113915	Measurements of the Z partial decay width into cc[bar] and multiplicity of charm quarks per b decay	The partial decay width R[sub]c of the Z into cc[bar] quark pair and the number of charm quarks n[sub]c per b decay are measured with the DELPHI detector at LEP 1. Particle identification provides clear D[sup]0, D[sup]+, (D[sub]s)[sup]+ and ([Lambda][sub]c)[sup]+ signatures. The charm hadron production rate is measured in each channel by a fit to the scaled energy, impact parameter information and the invariant mass spectrum. Two measurements of R[sub]c are presented, from the D[sup]*+ production rate and from the overall charm counting, including strange charm baryon production, in cc[bar] events. The multiplicity n[sub]c, which includes hidden cc[bar] and strange charm baryon production, is inferred from the charm counting in bb[bar] events. The final results are R[sub]c = 0.1665 [plus minus] 0.0095 and n[sub]c = 1.166 [plus minus] 0.086.	deu	Springer	2000	1.01	The European physical journal	5.408	1.99
11392790	Development of a mathematical model for the heat transfer of the system man - clothing - environment	The advantage of the presented heat transfer model is its ability to offer a fast evaluation of the heat transfer for various textile materials incorporated into the clothing system under different ambient conditions. The developed model is original and has an important contribution to thermal comfort.	gbr	MCB University Press	2007	1.01	International journal of clothing science and technology	0.404	0.674
11393558	New approach to uncertainty evaluation in the calibration of gauge block comparators	Gauge blocks (GBs) are being calibrated by two methods: interferometric calibration and calibration by mechanical comparison to reference GB. While interferometric method represents primary level, comparison is more suitable for calibrating industrial GBs because of lower costs and shorter calibration time. Although no significant changes in equipment happened in last decade, improvements in mechanical comparison are on-going. In addition to the uncertainty of the reference GB calibration, uncertainty of the GB comparator is the most important contribution to total uncertainty of the mechanical calibration. The article introduces a new approach for evaluating the uncertainty of GB comparator calibration. The uncertainty budget and results of analytical and experimental evaluation of all contributions are presented. This approach results in lower end-effect uncertainty and a slightly higher length dependent uncertainty, in comparison with the uncertainty evaluation procedure as described in EA document EA-10/02.	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Measurement	0.500	0.771
11396697	Recognizing pseudo-median graphs	Pseudo-median graphs form a nonbipartite generalization of median graphs. We derive a characterization of pseudo-median graphs based on a sequence of gated expansions which allows us to recognize these graphs in ?$O(mn)$? time.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Applied Mathematics	0.471	0.679
11397896	The qualitative changes of human motor dimensions in boys between the ages of 10 and 14	The main aim of the study was to establish the qualitative changes of motor dimensions between the ages of 10 and 14. The sample consists of 550 boys aged 10, 12 and 14. A battery of 26 tests was used for measuring motor abilities. The structure of motor abilities was established with the use of the factor analysis. The results show the emergence of significant qualitative changes of motor dimensions. Half of the motor factors change with age, while the rest of them remain stable. The motor dimensions, which are under the influence of regulation mechanisms of a higher order, change with age. In contrast to that, most motor dimensions which are dependent on mechanisms of a lower order are developmentally more stable. With the progression of age the structure of motor dimensions becomes increasingly well-defined. Observations of this study show that qualitative changes of motor dimensions are closely connected with the development processes	hrv	Institute for Anthropological Research, University of Zagreb	2001	1.01	Collegium antropologicum	0.414	0.649
11399958	A preliminary study on various implementation approaches of domain-specific language	Various implementation approaches for developing a domain-specific language are available in literature. There are certain common beliefs about the advantages/disadvantages of these approaches. However, it is hard to be objective and speak in favor of a particular one, since these implementation approaches are normally compared over diverse application domains. The purpose of this paper is to provide empirical results from ten diverse implementation approaches for domain-specific languages, but conducted using the same representative language. Comparison shows that these discussed approaches differ in terms of the effort need to implement them, however, the effort needed by a programmer to implement a domain-specific language should not be the only factor taken into consideration. Another important factor is the effort needed by an end-user to rapidly write correct programs using the produced domain-specific language. Therefore, this paper also provides empirical results on end-user productivity, which is measured as the lines of code needed to express a domain-specific program, similarity to the original notation, and how error-reporting and debugging are supported in a given implementation.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2008	1.01	Information and software technology	1.200	1.281
11402267	Influence of flow field on sedimentation efficiency in a circular settling tank with peripheral inflow and central effluent	The paper presents an experimental study of suspension flow patterns and velocity field inside a circular settling tank with continuous operation. Research was focused on the impact of a specific flow pattern on the sedimentation efficiency of the prototype settling tank. The latter differed from a common circular settling tank in that it was peripherally fed and had the central draw-off. Experiment was carried out on a settling tank section made of plexiglass and represented a radial slice of a prototype settling tank. The flow field and local suspension concentration was determined by computer-aided visualization. Sedimentation efficiency was assessed relatively by comparison of the amount of settled particles (sludge height measurements) between different types of flow in a certain time period of the settling tank operation. Results showed that there were two types of flow in the settling tank that were initiated by a horizontal or vertical inflow from the distribution ring. The type of inflow (horizontal or vertical) was a function of the suspension height in the settling tank. Significant differences in sedimentation efficiency were observed between both types of flow, particularly at lower inlet suspension concentrations. Horizontal inflow proved to be less efficient in terms of settling.	che	Elsevier Sequoia	2010	1.01	Chemical engineering and processing	1.729	1.428
11403016	Mitochondria regulate the amplitude of simple and complex calcium oscillations	In a mathematical model for simple calcium oscillations [Biophys. Chem. 71 (1998) 125], it has been shown that mitochondria play an important role in the maintenance of constant amplitudes of cytosolic ?$Ca^2+$? oscillations. Simple plausible rate laws for ?$Ca^2+$? fluxes across the inner mitochondrial membrane have been used in this model. Here we show that it is possible to use the same rate laws as a plug-in element in other existing mathematical models and obtain the same effect on amplitude regulation. This result appears to be universal, independent of the type of model and the type of ?$Ca^2+$? oscillations. We demonstrate this on two models for spiking ?$Ca^2+$? oscillations [J. Biol. Chem. 266 (1991) 11068; Cell Calcium 14 (1993) 311] and on two recent models for bursting ?$Ca^2+$? oscillations; one of them being a receptor-operated model [Biophys. J. 79 (2000) 1188] and the other one being a store-operated model [BioSystems 57 (2000) 75]	nld	North-Holland	2001	1.01	Biophysical chemistry	1.918	2.064
11405590	Multimode all-fiber quasi-distributed refractometer sensor array and cross-talk mitigation	The analysis and design of a quasi-distributed multimode fiber refractometer array is presented. The main challenge in the design of a practical quasi-distributed sensor array proved to be in mitigation of otherwise pronounced cross-talk effects among the individual sensors in the network. Thecross-talk effects originate from mode filtering properties and the strong mode excitation dependence on the multimode refractometer sensors that constitute the array. The introduction of mode conditioning based on fiber mode filters and mode mixers effectively reduced the cross talk to a negligible level while providing the desired sensor response at acceptable collateral losses to the network. A comprehensive experimental analysis was carried out to provide detailed insight into the multimode sensor array behavior and to obtain data necessary for an overall and effective network design.	usa	Optical Society of America	2007	1.01	Applied optics	1.701	1.124
11408601	Treatment of extensive bone and soft tissue defects of the lower limb by traction and free-flap transfer	Twenty patients with extensive bone and soft tissue defects and posttraumatic osteomyelitis were treated between 1983 and 1995. In all cases an external fixator was used for bone fixation. Bone defects were managed with the Ilizarov intercalary bone transport. Two types of traction were used: the Ilizarov type and a ""new"" Ljubljana type. The results of treatment were compared between the two types of traction. In all cases delayed bony union was observed. Osteomyelitis never reactivated. All patients were satisfied with treatment. They were all independent exept for one amputee. The Ljubljanatraction method was found to have the following advantages: no discrepancy in leg length, no ortopaedic support was needed, the aesthetic outcome was better, the traction time was reduced and there was less soft tissue damage during bone traction.	gbr	John Wright and Sons	2000	1.01	Injury	0.363	1.146
11409753	On commuting compact self-adjoint operators on a Pontryagin space	Suppose that ?$A_1,A_2,\ldots,A_n$? are compact commuting self-adjoint linear maps on a Pontryagin space ?$K$? of index ?$k$? and that their joint root subspace ?$M_0$? at the zero eigenvalue in ?$\Cc^n$? is a nondegenerate subspace. Then there exist joint invariant subspaces ?$H$? and ?$F$? in ?$K$? such that ?$K = F \oplus H$?, ?$H$? is a Hilbert space and ?$F$? is finite-dimensional space with ?$k \le \dim F \le (n+2)k$?. We also consider the structure of restrictions ?$A_j|_F$? in the case ?$k=1$?.	che	Birkhäuser	2001	1.01	Integral equations and operator theory	0.451	0.48
11411417	Eating behavior, depression, and self-esteem in high school students	Objective: In a representative sample of 4700 Slovene high school students, weexamined their eating behavior and its correlations with some psychosocial and psychological characteristics with the aim of identifying the main risk factors for disordered eating. Method: Using a questionnaire which also included Zungs Self-rating Depression Scale and Rosenbergs Self-Esteem Scale, we compared girls (n=2507) and boys (n=2193) with regard to their satisfactionwith their body weight, weight-reducing activites, and frequency of binge eating. We assessed their family relationships, abuse of alcohol and other psychoactive drugs, suicidal ideation, and suicidal tendences, as well as their level of depression and self-esteem. Results: The results showed significant differences between girls and boys, between groups of those who were satisfied and those who were dissatisfied with their body weight, and also between groups which indulged in frequent binge eating, and those which did not. Conclusion: Within a general population of adolescents, there is a substantial number of subjects with disoredered eating behavior, some part of whom are at high risk for eating disorders.	usa	Elsevier Science Publishing	2000	1.01	Journal of adolescent health	1.415	0.977
11412569	The direct expansion of graphs	The concept of exapsion of a graph has proved to be an efficient tool in the study of median, quasi-median and partial Hamming graphs. The basic idea of expansion is that given a graph ?$G$?, we obtain a graph ?$G'$? by enlarging a subgraph ?$G$? according to a certain rule in such a way that ?$G'$? inherits certain properties of ?$G$?. Mulder suggested several new rules for such expansions (H. M. Mulder, The expansion procedure for graphs, in: R. Bodendiek (Ed.), Contemporary Methods in Graph Theory, B. I.-Wissenschaftsverlag, Manhaim, 1990, p.p. 459-477). In particular he pointed out the case when a direct product in the process of expansion is used, and called it a relational expansion. In this paper we investigate it in further detail, especially, we deal with preservation of connectivity by this expansion.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11412763	Machining of titanium alloy Ti-6Al-4V for biomedical applications	Titanium alloy has properties like outstanding corrosion resistance and very good biocompatibility whicht makes this material very interesting for biomedical applications. Due to its material properties titanium alloy poses a challenge for machining operations. A sound understanding of the alloy behaviour during the machining process is essential to achieve shape and dimensions tolerances of the product with minimum costs and machining times.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2010	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.466	0.909
11412825	Finding a five bicolouring of a triangle-free subgraph of the triangular lattice	A basic problem in the design of mobile telephone networks is to assign sets of radio frequency bands (colours) to transmitters (vertices) to avoid interference. Often the transmitters are laid out like vertices of a triangular lattice in the plane. We investigate the corresponding colouring problem of assigning sets of colours of size ?$p(v)$? to each vertex of the triangular lattice so that the sets of colours assigned to adjacent vertices are disjoint. A ?$n-[p]$?žcolouring of a graph ?$G$? is a mapping ?$c$? from ?$V(G)$? into the set of the subset ?$1,2,...n$? such that ?$|c(v)=p(v)$? and for any adjacent vertices ?$u$? and ?$v$?, ?$c(u) \cap c(v) = \emptyset$?. We give here an alternative proof of the fact that every triangular-free induced subgraph of the triangular lattice is 5-[2]colourable. This proof yields a distributed algorithm that finds a 5-[2]colouring of such a graph. We then give a distributed algorithm that finds a ?$[p]$?coloration of a triangle-free induced subgraph of a triangular lattice with a most ?$\frac{5\omega_p(G)}{4} + 3$? colours.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11413081	Cyclic Haar graphs	For a given group ?$\Gamma$? with a generating set ?$A$?, a dipole with ?$|A|$? parallel directed edges labeled by elements of ?$A$? gives rise to a voltage graph whose covering graph, denoted by ?$H(\Gamma,A)$? is a bipartite, regular graph, called a bi-Cayley graph. In the case when ?$\Gamma$? is abelian we refer to ?$H(\Gamma,A)$? as a Haar graph of ?$\Gamma$? with respect to the symbol ?$A$?. In particular for ?$\Gamma$? cyclic in above graph is referred to as a cyclic Haar graph. A basic theory of cyclic Haar graphs is presented.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11413337	Krein parameters and antipodal tight graphs with diameter 3 and 4	We determine which Krein parameters of nonbipartite antipodal distance-regular graphs of diameter three and four can be vanish, and give combinatorial interpretations of their vanishing. We also study tight distance-regular graphs of diameter three and four. In the case of diameter three, tight graphs are precisely the Taylor graphs. In the case of antipodal distance-regular graphs of diameter four, tight graphs are precisely the graphs for which the Krein parameter ?$q_{11}^4$? vanishes.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
1141340	An information method for achieving value-added processing of bibliographic databases in science and technology	The article presents and discusses a methodological procedure based on the functional density of information, which can be used for value-added processing of bibliographic databases with scientific and technological information to predict and recognise trends in research and development fields. The concept of functional information density can be applied in processing bibliographic databases by specific search fields, such as: number of documents by the publication year, number of articles and patents by year, patent assigne, patent applications and granted patents by country, international patents classification codes, and journal titles. The proposal information procedure was tested on the research topics microencapsulation technology, meicroencapsulated pesticides, microencapsulated repellents and superabsorbents, and was used as an information support for design of researchhypotheses, planning of research, development and marketing of products.	gbr	MCB University Press	2000	1.01	Online information review	0.422	0.545
11413593	On subgraphs of Cartesian product graphs	Graphs which can be represented as nontrivial subgraphs of Cartesian product graphs are characterized. As a corollary it is shown that any bipartite, ?$K_{2,3}$?-free graphs of radius 2 has such a representation. An infinite family of graphs which have no such representation and contain no proper representable subgraph is also constructed. Only a finite number of such graphs have been previously known.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11413849	Action graphs and coverings	An action graph is a combinatorial representation of a group acting on a set. Comparing two group actions by a morphism of actions induces a covering projection of the respective graphs. This simple observation generalizes and unifies many well-known results in graph theory, with applications ranging from the theory of maps on surfaces and group presentations to theoretical computer science, among others. Reconstruction of action graphs from smaller ones is considered, some results on lifting and projecting the equivariant group of automorphisms are proved, and a special case of the split-extension structure of lifted groups is studied. Action digraphs in connection with group presentations are also discussed.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11414105	On approximating the maximum diameter ratio of graphs	It is proved that computing the maximum diameter ratio (also known as the local density) of a graph is APX-complete. The related problem of finding a maximum subgraph of a fixed diameter ?$d \ge 1$? is proved to be even harder to approximate.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11414361	Classifying 2-arc-transitive graphs of order a product of two primes	A classification of all 2-arc-transitive graphs of order a product of two primes is given. Furthermore, it is shown that cycles and complete graphs are the only 2-arc-transitive Cayley graph of Abelian group of odd order.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11414617	Coloring Eulerian triangulations of the projective plane	A simple characterization of the 3, 4, or 5-colorable Eulerian triangulations of the projective plane is given.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11414873	Letter graphs and well-quasi-order by induced subgraphs	Given a word ?$w$? over a finite alphabet and a set of ordered pairs of letters which define adjencies, we construct a graph which we call the letter graph of ?$w$?. The lettericity of a graph ?$G$? is the least size of alphabet permitting to obtain ?$G$? as a letter graph. The set of 2-letter graphs consists of treshold graphs, unbounded-interval graphs, and their complements. We determine the lettericity of cycles and bound the lettericity of paths to an interval of length one. We show that the class of ?$k$?-letter graphs is well-quasy-ordered by the induced subgraph relation, and that it has a finite set of minimal forbidden induced subgraphs. As a consequence, ?$k$?-letter graphs can be recognized in polynomial time for any fixed ?$k$?.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11415129	Strongly adjacency-transitive graphs and uniquely shift-transitive graphs	An automorphism ?$\sigma$? of a finite simple graph ?$\Gamma$? is an adjacency automorphism if for every vertex ?$x\in V(\Gamma)$?, either ?$\sigma x = x$? or ?$\sigma x$? is adjacent to ?$x$? in ?$\Gamma$?. An adjacency automorphism fixing no vertices is a shift. A connected graph ?$\Gamma$? is strongly adjacency-transitive (respectively, uniquely shift-transitive) if there is, for every pair of adjacent vertices ?$x,y\in V(\Gamma)$?, an adjacency automorphism (respectively, a unique shift) ?$\sigma \in {\rm Aut}\Gamma$? sending ?$x$? to ?$y$?. The action graph ?$\Gamma = {\rm ActGrph}(G,X,S)$? of a group ?$G$? acting on a set ?$X$?, relative to an inverse-closed nonempty subset ?$S\subseteq G$?, is defined as follows: the vertex-set of ?$\Gamma$? is ?$X$?, and two different vertices ?$x,y\in V(\Gamma)$? are adjacent in ?$\Gamma$? if and only if ?$y=sx$? for some ?$s\in S$?. A characterization of strongly adjacency-transitive graphs in terms of action graphs is given. A necessary and sufficient condition for cartesian products of graphs to be uniquely shift-transitive is proposed, and two questions concerning uniquely shift-transitive graphs are raised.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11416153	On 2-arc-transitive Cayley graphs of Abelian groups	A 2-arc in a graph ?$X$? is a sequence of three distinct vertices of graph ?$X$? where the first two and the last two are adjacent. A graph ?$X$? is 2-arc-transitive if its automorphism group acts transitively on the set of 2-arcs of ?$X$?. Some properties of 2-arc-transitive Cayley graphs of Abelian groups are considered. It is also proved that the set of generators of a 2-arc-transitive Cayley graph of an Abelian group which is not a circulant contains no elements of odd order.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11416409	A self-similarity structure generated by king's walk	For all non-negative integers ?$i,j$? let ?$w(i,j)$? denote the number of all paths in the plane from ?$(0,0)$? to ?$(i,j)$? with steps ?$(1,0)$?, ?$(0,1)$?, and ?$(1,1)$?. The numbers ?$w(i,j)$? are known as the Delannoy numbers. They were studied by several authors. Let ?$p$? be an odd prime and let ?$\bar{w}(i,j)$? denote the remainder of ?$w(i,j)$? when divided by ?$p$? where ?$0 \le \bar{w}(i,j) < p$?. The Lucas property of ?$w(i,j)$? which implies the self-similar pattern of ?$\bar{w}(i,j)$? is derived in a new way. The aim of this article is to show that for the array ?$\bar{w}(i,j)$? a principal cell exists and that this principal cell has some symmetry properties with special features for ?$p=3,5,7,11,19$?. Triples of equal numbers of the principal cell are also discussed.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11416921	On decomposing K [sub] n - I into cycles of a fixed odd length	We show that if ?$K_n-I$?, the complete graph on ?$n$? vertices with a 1-factor removed, can be decomposed into cycles of a fixed odd length ?$m$? for all ?$n$? in the range ?$m \le n < 3m$? that satisfy the obvious necessary conditions, then ?$K_n-I$? can be decomposed into ?$m$?-cycles for all ?$n \le m$? satisfying the necessary conditions.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
114171	Two-dimensional analysis of the Bose-Einstein correlations in e[sup]+ e[sup]- annihilation at the Z[sup]0 peak	The study of the directional dependence, of two-particle correlations in the hadronic decays of the Z[sup]0 boson is performed using the data collected by the DELPHI experiment in the 1992-1995 running periods. The comparison between the transverse, R[sub][orthogonal], and longitudinal, R[sub][parallel], correlation radii confirms the string model prediction that the transverse correlation length is smaller than the longitudinal one, with the measured values of R[sub][orthogonal] = 0.53 [plus minus] 0.08 fm and R[sub][parallel] = 0.85 [plus minus] 0.08 fm, for selected Z[sup]0 [to] qq[bar] events.	nld	North-Holland	2000	1.01	Physics letters	4.213	1.485
11417433	The exact isoperimetric inequality for ternary and quaternary cubes	We extend the well-known edge-isoperimetric inequality of Harper, Bernstein and Hart to ternary and quaternary cubes. More generally, let ?$Q$? be the graph with vertex set ?$V = \prod_{i=1}^n \lbrack k_i \rback$? in which ?$x \in V$? is joined to ?$y \in V$? if for some ?$i$? we have ?$\|x_i -y_i\| = 1$? and ?$x_j=y_j$? for all ?$j \ne i$?. If ?$k_1 \ge ...\ge k_n$? and ?$k_2 \le 4$?, we prove that for any ?$0 \le m \le \|V\|$?, no ?$m$?-set of vertices of ?$Q$? is joined to the rest of ?$Q$? by fewer edges than the set of the first ?$m$? vertices of ?$Q$? in the lexicographic ordering on ?$V$?.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11417561	Is Sjögren's syndrome involved in the formation of localized nodular amyloidosis?	Oobjective: The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that, with the use of preoperative treatment, the dimensions of the upper part of the oral cavity of an infant with unilateral cleft lip and palate (UCLP) become more similar to those of a noncleft infant. Design: This was a retrospective study of upper dental casts taken at birth and prior to lip repair at 6 monthsof age. A treated group, an untreated group, and a group of noncleft contemporaries were compared cross-sectionally and longitudinally. Models wereanalyzed by the trigonometric method. Setting: The study was performed at a maxillofacial center servicing a population of two million. Participants: The treated group consisted of 24 babies born after 1990 with UCLP that started presurgical treatment within 20 days of life. The untreated group consisted of 25 randomly selected UCLP casts taken at birth and 25 casts takenjust before lip surgery. The noncleft group consisted of 25 full-term infants whose mothers participated in the longitudinal growth study. All participants belonged to the same ethnic group. Iinterventions: Presurgical treatment consisted of the babies constantly wearing a thin, passive acrylic plate mimicking the normal palate and a slim adhesive tape fixed to the lip segments to bring them slightly together. Results: The upper oral cavity in a newborn with UCLP was significantly larger than in a noncleft infant, the onlyexception being in the sagittal dimension. After presurgical treatment, the upper oral cavity was remodeled and slightly enlarged; there was a lesser difference from the noncleft at 6 months than at birth. The cleft in the alveolus reduced significantly, and the position of the incisive point improved. The group without presurgical treatment had no remodeling, and the growth dynamics were similar to the noncleft so that the dimensional differences from the normal remained the same as the birth. (Abstract truncated at 2000 characters).	ita	Pacini	2000	1.13	Clinical and experimental rheumatology	1.638	1.75
11417689	On quasiabelian Cayley graphs and graphical doubly regular representations	A Cayley graph ?$\Gamma$? of a group ?$G$? is a graphical doubly regular representation (GDRR) of the group ?$G$? if ?${\rm Aut} \Gamma?$ is generated by the left and the right regular representations ?$L(G)$? and ?$R(G)$? of ?$G$?, and by the involution ?$g \mapsto g^{-1}$? on ?$G$?. Examples and properties of GDRRs and their automorphism groups are studied. The problem of determining groups having a GDRR is considered, and some obstructions for a group to have a GDRR are found. Necessary and sufficient conditions for a graph to be a GDRR of two nonisomorphic groups are given. Further, disconnected GDRRs are determined, and imprimitive block system of GDRRs are characterized.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11417945	Plane graphs with Eulerian Petrie walks	A Petrie walk in a plane graph ?$G$? is obtained by walking on edges of ?$G$?, alternatingly selecting as next edge the left edge and the right edge of the current edge in the rotation of edges around the common vertex. We give a characterization of 4-valent plane graphs with Eulerian Petrie walks which gives rise to a simple algorithm for constructing such graphs. This algorithm is then used to answer the question whether or not there exist 4-valent plane graphs with Eulerian petrie walks and faces of prescribed sizes.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11418457	Unique square property and fundamental factorizations of graph bundles	Graph bundles generalize the notion of covering graphs and graphs products. Authors W. Imrich, T. Pisanski and J. Žerovnik constructed an algorithm that finds a presentation as a nontrivial cartesian graph bundles over triangle-free simple base using the relation ?$\delta^\ast$? having the square property. An equivalence relation ?$R$? on the edge set of a graph has the (unique) square property if and only if any pair of adjacent edges which belong to distinct ?$R$?-equivalence classes span exactly one induced 4-cycle (with opposite edges in the same ?$R$?-equivalence class). In this paper we define the unique square property and show that any weakly 2-convex equivalence relation possessing the unique square property determines the fundamental factorization of a graph as a nontrivial cartesian graph bundles over an arbitrary base graph, whenever it separates degenerate and nondegenerate edges of the factorization.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11418902	Specification and verification of a parametric handover procedure using TLA	In mobile systems, some nodes link dynamically through different channels at different times. The $?pi?$-calculus is a popular process algebra for specification and verification of systems with dynamic linking and synchronous, rendezvous message passing communication of component processes. Dynamic linking can be elegantly specified in it by sending channels to be used for further communication as messages. However, in order to be able to use the $?pi?$-calculus, one has to learn its process-algebraic concepts and laws. On the other hand, specification and verification in the Temporal Logic of Actions (TLA) is almost entirely based on ordinary mathematics (i.e., first-order predicate logic, set theory, etc.). Therefore, this paper proposes a TLA approach to the specification and verification of systems with synchronous communication and dynamic linking similar to the $?pi?$-calculus one. It is presented with help of a TLA specification and verification of a parametric mobile network handover procedure which has previously been specified with the ?$pi$?-calculus. In fact, TLA + is used as the specification language, thus achieving completely formal specifications.	usa	World Scientific	2006	1.01	Journal of circuits, systems, and computers	0.116	0.946
11419675	Effect of pitting corrosion on fatigue performance of shot-peened aluminium alloy 7075-T651	Pitting corrosion has a major influence on aging of structural elements made of high-strength aluminium alloys as corrosion pits lead to earlier fatigue crack initiation under tensile dynamic loading. A cause of fatigue crack initiation in a corrosive medium is a stress concentration at a corroded area.In order to improve material resistance to corrosion fatigue it is necessary to reduce pit-tip stresses. To eliminate or reduce pit stresses, cold surface hardening by shot peening was proposed. The objective of the present study was to investigate the effect of surface hardening by shot peening on electrochemical stabilitz and corrosion fatigue properties of high-strength aluminium alloy 7075-T651 in the corrosive environment of a chloride solution. The results obtained show a favourable influence of shot-peening treatment on corrosion fatigue properties. Induced compressive residual stresses in the surface layer retard the initiation of fatigue cracks, and so the fatigue life improvement of structural elements made of high-strength aluminium alloys was observed.	nld	Elsevier	2010	1.01	Journal of materials processing technology	1.567	1.019
1142103	Philosophy of education in post-Soviet societies of Eastern Europe	This article explores the role of philosophy of education in three post-Soviet societies of Eastern Europe: Poland, Lithuania and Slovenia. The characteristic themes and approaches of philosophical reflection about education in these societies are explored with reference to three periods: the pre-Soviet, Soviet and post-Soviet periods.	gbr	Carfax Publ. Co.	2004	1.01	Comparative education	0.321	0.57
11421206	Antioxidant and antimicrobial activity of guarana seed extracts	The antioxidant and antibacterial activities of guarana (Paullinia cupana) seed extracts were determined. The seeds were extracted with water, methanol, 35% acetone and 60% ethanol at room (TR) and at boiling (TB) temperature of solvent.Extracts were analyzed for the contents of caffeine and catechins, epicatechin (EC), catechin (C) and epicatechin gallate (ECG), by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The contents of total phenols (according to the Folin-Ciocalteu procedure) and proanthocyanidins were analysed by UV spectrophotometry. The guarana seed water extract obtained at room temperature contained higher amounts of caffeine and catechins than did alcoholic guarana seed extracts. The antioxidant and radical-scavenging activities of guarana seed extracts were evaluated using the ß-carotene-linoleic acid emulsion system and the stable free radical 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH ). All tested guarana seed extracts displayed strong antioxidant and radical-scavenging properties. The guarana seed extracts were tested against three food-borne fungi: Aspergillus niger, Trichoderma viride and Penicillium cyclopium, and three health-damaging bacteria: Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas fluorescens and Bacillus cereus by theagar well diffusion and broth dilution assay. The alcoholic guarana seed extracts displayed stronger antimicrobial activity against all tested microorganisms than did water extracts. Results presented here may suggest that seed extracts of guarana possess strong antimicrobial and antioxidant properties, and they can therefore be used as a natural additive in food, cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries.	nld	Applied Science Publishers	2007	1.01	Food chemistry	3.052	1.15
11423254	In-line short cavity Fabry-Perot strain sensor for quasi distributed measurement utilizing standard OTDR	This paper presents an in-line, short cavity Fabry-Perot fiber optic strain sensor. A short air cavity inside a single-mode fiber is created by the fusionsplicing of appropriately micro machined fiber tips. A precise tuning of the cavity length is introduced and used for the setting of the sensor static characteristics within the quasi-linear range around a quadrature point, which significantly simplifies signal processing. Sensor insertion losses achieved by short cavity design and optimized fusion splicing pro ved to be below l dB. Low insertion los s allows for effective cascading of the proposed strain sensors into a quasi-distributed sensor array. A practical IO-point quasi-distributed strain sensor array was demonstrated in practice, where each in-line sensor was tuned to the same operating point in the static characteristics, thus allowing for simple interrogation of the sensor array by using standard telecommunication OTDR. In addition, precise tuning of the short cavity Fabry Perot sensor was applied for an effective compensation of temperature-induced strain errors and for an increase in the unambiguous measuring range, while improving the overalllinearity of the sensor system.	usa	Optical Society of America	2007	1.01	Optics express	3.709	1.124
11430408	Bifurcation analysis of calcium oscillations	The behavior of calcium oscillation near bifurcations is analyzed for three different models. For the model developed by Somogyi and Stucki [42], it is shown that the range of oscillations is bounded by supercritical and subcritical Hopf bifurcations. Near the latter, canard orbits arise, that is, quasi-harmonic oscillations with a very small amplitude grow very fast to become pulsed oscillations. The potential biological significance of this behavior is discused. A time-scale analysis of this model is performed and an approximation formula for the oscillations period is derived. For two models that we presented earlier [30, 31], it is shown that a homoclinic bifurcation and an infinite period bifurcation, respectively, occur. These imply that the oscillation period can reach arbitrarily high values. This behavior is discussed in the light of frequency encoding, and the scaling laws of the oscillation period are given	sgp	World Scientific	2001	1.01	Journal of biological systems	0.306	0.619
11430934	Simulation of crash tests for high containment levels of road safety barriers	This paper presents the results of computer simulations of road safety barrierbehaviour under vehicle crash conditions for high containment levels asmandated by the European standard EN 1317. Simulations were performed with the explicit finite element code LS-DYNA, running on a multiprocessor computational platform. A very good agreement of simulation and real crash tests results was observed, which in turn justifies the use of computer simulations in the process of development and certification of road safety barriers.	nld	Pergamon	2007	1.01	Engineering failure analysis	0.565	0.579
11435030	Compressed vertex chain codes	This paper introduces three new vertex chain codes. Firstly, considering that the vertex chain code uses 2 bits to represent only three code elements, a new code is introduced without increasing the average bits per code. The second case introduces a variable-length vertex chain code. Finally, a new compressed chain code is proposed based on the Huffman method. The continuation introduces a method for quantificationally evaluating the efficiency of chain codes. The efficiencies of the new vertex chain codes are then compared theoretically and practically against the most popular chain codes. The result of the comparison shows that the new compressed chain code is the most efficient.	nld	Pergamon	2007	1.01	Pattern recognition	2.019	0.927
11442454	Magnetically nonlinear dynamic model of synchronous motor with permanent magnets	This paper deals with a magnetically nonlinear two-axis dynamic model of a permanent magnet synchronous motor (PMSM). The geometrical and material properties of iron core and permanent magnets, the effects of winding distribution, saturation, cross-saturation and slotting effects are, for the first time, simultaneously accounted for in a single two-axis dynamic model ofa three-phase PMSM. They are accounted for by current- and position-dependent characteristics of flux linkages. These characteristics canbe determined either experimentally or by the finite element (FE) computations. The results obtained by the proposed dynamic model show a very good agreement with the measured ones and those obtained by the FE computation.	usa	North-Holland Publishing Co	2007	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.704	1.682
114427	Measurement of the energy dependence of the form factor f[sub]+ in (K[sub]e3)[sup]0 decay	Neutral-kaon decays to [pi]e[nu] were analysed to determine the q[sup]2 dependence of the (K[sub]e3)[sup]0 electroweak form factor f[sub]+. Based on 365612 events, this form factor was found to have a linear dependence on q[sup]2 with a slope [Lambda][sub]+ = 0.0245 [plus minus] 0.0012[sub]stat [plus minus] 0.0022[sub]syst.	nld	North-Holland	2000	1.01	Physics letters	4.213	1.485
11442966	Comparison of torque capability of three-phase permanent magnet synchronous motors with different permanent magnet arrangement	The paper presents a comparison of torque capability of three-phase permanent magnet synchronous motors with different permanent magnet arrangement. Motors with the following permanent magnet topologies were accounted for in the comparisonÈ the surface-mounted permanent magnet synchronous motor (SMPMSM), the interior permanent magnet synchronous motor (IPMSM), the permanent magnet-assisted synchronous reluctance motor (PMASRM) and the flux reversal permanent magnet motor (FRPMM). Finite element method analysis is employed to determine the performance of each motor. Calculated performance of four-pole IPMSM determined by finite element method calculation is confirmed with the measurements at nearly constant nominal output power in the range of speed 3000-10,000 rpm.	usa	North-Holland Publishing Co	2007	1.01	Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials	1.704	1.682
11446550	The behaviour of coarse-grain HAZ steel with small defects during cycling loading	The effects of small, artificial surface defects on the fatigue strength of coarse grain HAZ material found at the weld toe were studied. The size of defects did not exceed the grain size, which is the most relevant microstructural unit of polycrystalline metals. The artificial defects were made by indenting the material with Vicker`s pyramid and by drilling holes. The samples of coarse-grain HAZ material were prepared using a welding thermal-cycle simulator or furnace. The mexperimentally determined bending fatigue strength versus the properly evaluated defects siye was compared with the propagation of long cracks. Residual stresses appear when making small artificial defects. The crack initiation from the defects was analysed and theinfluence of residual stresses is discussed.	svn	Inštitut za kovinske materiale in tehnologije	2007	1.01	Materiali in tehnologije	0.143	2.034
11450651	Experimental identification of the contact parameters between a V-ribbed belt and a pulley	The aim of this paper is to identify the contact parameters between a belt and a pulley that can be used in a two-dimensional multibody belt-drive model. Two experimental setups are proposed in order to identify the contact stiffness and the friction coefficient between the V-ribbed belt and the pulley. The friction coefficient is identified at various initial belt tensions and relative velocities between the belt and the pulley. The measurement procedure and the contact formulation are verified with a numerical experiment.	gbr	Pergamon Press	2010	1.01	Mechanism and Machine Theory	1.206	0.909
11450907	Analytical method to evaluate fuel consumption of hybrid electric vehicles at balanced energy content of the electric storage devices	Innovative analytically based method to calculate corrected fuel consumption of parallel and series hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) at balanced energy content of the electric storage devices is proposed and validated in the paper. The proposed analytical method is generally applicable and features highly accurate corrected fuel consumption results. It enables calculation of the corrected fuel consumption out of a single fuel consumption test run in a single analytic post-processing step. An additional fuel consumption test run might be needed to obtain highly accurate results if ratio of the energy content deviation of the electric storage devices to the energy used for vehicle propulsion over the test cycle is high. Proposed method enables consideration of non-linear energy flow changes and non-linear HEV component efficiency changes caused by the energy management strategy or by the component characteristics. The method therefore features highly accurate results out of the minimum number of fuel consumption test runs and thus optimizes workload for development or optimization of HEVs. The input data of the method are characteristic energy flows and efficiencies that are derived from the energy flows on selected energy paths of HEVs.	gbr	Applied Science Publ.	2010	1.01	Applied energy	3.888	1.428
11451419	Yield-point phenomenon in constitutive models of cyclic plasticity	This paper describes the yield-point phenomenon in rate-independent constitutive models of cyclic plasticity. This phenomenon is typical of annealed low-alloy steels and related alloys as well as of some aluminium and titanium alloys and occurs at first transition from the elastic into the elasto-plastic region. The effects of cyclic plasticity are described with constitutive equations of kinematic and cyclic hardening or softening. The advantage of the presented model is that it requires a small number of material parameters which describe the yield-point phenomenon and can be defined using simple uniaxial monotonous experiments. In order to define material parameters and establish the stress-strain response of the constitutive model in comparison with the actual state, uniaxial monotonous and uniaxial cyclic tension-compression experiments were carried out. The model is included in the finite element code the use of which helps to simulate the contribution of the model to the development of the stress-strainstate in a real structure.	nld	Elsevier	2010	1.01	Computational materials science	1.458	2.13
11453785	Splitting obstruction groups in codimension 2	We consider the splitting obstruction groups for the case of codimension 2. We use the methods developed earlier for the case of one-sided submanifolds to investigate the splitting problem in codimension 2. Under some natural restrictions on the push-out square ?$F$? we obtain new exact sequences and diagrams containing the groups ?$LS_\ast(F)$? and ?$LP_\ast(F)$?. We also compute some obstruction groups for geometric applications. Finally, we construct a surgery spectral sequence based on a sequence of submanifolds in codimension 2.	usa	Consultants Bureau	2001	1.01	Mathematical notes	0.157	0.48
11454742	The fundamental coupling constants of physics in connection with the dimension of the special orthogonal and unitary groups	We show the connection between the coupling constants and the dimensions of special orthogonal and unitary groups. A derivation of the exact theoretical value of the fine structure constant from groups SU(3), SO(9) and the Betti number is found.	nld	Pergamon	2007	1.01	Chaos, solitons and fractals	3.025	0.979
11455833	On the critical point-arboricity graphs	In this paper, we study the critical point-arboricity graphs. We prove two lower bounds for the number of edges of ?$k$?-critical point-arboricity graphs. A theorem of Kronk is extended by proving that the point-arboricity of a graph ?$G$? embedded on a surface ?$\cal{S}$? with Euler genus ?$g=2,5,6$? or ?$g \ge 10$? is at most ?$k = \lfloor \frac{9+\sqrt{1+24g}}{4} \rfloor$? with equality holding iff ?$G$? contais either ?$K_{2k-1}$? or ?$K_{2k-4} + C_5$? as a subgraph. It is also proved that locally planar graphs have point-arboricity ?$\le 3$? and that triangle-free locally planar graphs have point-arboricity ?$\le 2$?.	usa	John Wiley	2002	1.01	Journal of graph theory	0.377	0.504
11456089	Unital strongly harmonic commutative Banach algebras	A unital commutative Banach algebra ?$\cal{A}$? is spectrally separable if for any two distinct non-zero multiplicative linear functionals ?$\varphi$? and ?$\psi$? on it there exist ?$a$? and ?$b$? in ?$\cal{A}$? such that ?$ab=0$? and ?$\varphi(a)\psi(b) \ne 0$?. Spectrally separable algebras are a special subclass of strongly harmonic algebras. We prove that a unital commutative Banach algebra ?$\cal{A}$? is spectrally separable if there are enough elements in ?$\cal{A}$? such that the corresponding multiplication operators on ?$\cal{A}$? have the decomposition property ?$(\delta)$?. On the other hand, if ?$\cal{A}$? is spectrally separable, then for each ?$a \in \cal{A}$? and each Banach left ?$\cal{A}$?-module ?$\cal{X}$? the corresponding multiplication operator ?$L_a$? on ?$\cal{X}$? is super-decomposable. These two statements improve an earlier result of Baskakov.	pol	Pañstwowe Wydawnictwo Naukowe	2002	1.01	Studia Mathematica	0.399	0.504
11457881	An irreducible semigroup of non-negative square-zero operators	We construct an irreducible multiplicative semigroup of non-negative square-zero operators acting on ?$L^p[0,1)$?, for ?$1 \le p < \infty$?.	che	Birkhäuser	2002	1.01	Integral equations and operator theory	0.453	0.504
11459161	On Hua's fundamental theorem of the geometry of rectangular matrices	We show that Hua's fundamental theorem of the geometry of rectangular matrices can be proved without the bijectivity assumption when the underlying field is the field of real numbers. We also give a counterexample showing that this generalization is not possible in the complex case.	usa	Academic Press	2002	1.01	Journal of algebra	0.501	0.504
11459929	Extrapolated Magnus methods	We describe the use of extrapolation with Magnus methods for solution of a system of linear differential equations. The idea is a generalization of extrapolation with symmetric methods for the numerical solution of ODEs, where each extrapolation step increases the order of the method by 2.	swe	Institutionen for informationsbehandling, Lunds Universitet	2001	1.01	BIT	0.835	0.619
11461721	Constructing 1/2-arc-transitive graphs of valency 4 and vertex stabilizer Z [sub] 2 [times] Z [sub] 2	An infinite family of 1/2-arc-transitive graphs of valency 4 with alternating cycles of length 4 is given. Besides, an infinite family of 1/2-arc-transitive graphs of valency 4 with vertex stabilizer isomorphic to ?$Z_2 \times Z_2$?, is constructed.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11461977	Functional identities revised: the fractional and the strong degree	The concept of the fractional and the strong degree of an element in a ring are introduced. It is shown that definitive results on functional identities can be obtained in rings which contain elements of appropriate fractional (or strong) degree. This enables us to extend the result on functional identities from prime to semiprime rings, as well as to some rather different classes of rings, such as matrix rings over any unital ring. As an application, commuting maps, Lie derivations and commutativity preserving maps in such rings are discussed.	usa	M. Dekker.	2002	1.01	Communications in algebra	0.305	0.504
11462233	Additive preservers of numerical range	We characterize all additive mappings preserving (classical) numerical range on various subalgebras of ?${\mathcal M}_n$?: the subalgebra of diagonal matrices ?${\mathcal D}_n$?, the subalgebra of all (upper) triangular matrices ?${\mathcal T}_n$? and subalgebras of block diagonal and block triangular matrices. Characterizations obtained show that in some cases, ?${\mathcal M}_n$? for example, all suvh preservers are linear. On the other hand, we show that the group of all additive preservers on ?${\mathcal T}_n$? contains some additional mapping.	usa	North Holland	2002	1.01	Linear Algebra and its Applications	0.462	0.679
11467865	CW decompositions of equivariant CW complexes	We discuss conditions which ensure that a ?$G$?-CW complex in ?$G$?-homotopy equivalent to a CW complex with cellular action with respect to some CW decomposition of the compact Lie group ?$G$?. For ?$G=SU(2)$?, we prove that for every ?$G$?-CW complex ?$X$?, there exist a CW complex ?$Y$? which is ?$G$?-homotopy equivalent to ?$X$?, such that the action ?$G \times Y \to Y$? is a cellular map.	aus	The University of Queensland Press	2002	1.01	Bulletin of the Australian Mathematical Society	0.222	0.504
11469339	Automation of LCF material model parameters' identification	Modeling of material behaviour has significant influence on design and optimiyation of mechanical structures and consequently calculation of their lifetime. When using complex constitutive material model that describes elastic-plastic behaviour of the cyclically loaded material and takes into account damage occurrence and accumulation, the process of parameter identification from experimental data is very complex and time-consuming. In this paper the damage occurrence and accumulation within the material are described by means of models of Bauschinger effect, kinematic and isotropic hardening (or softening) according to Chaboche material model and mean stress relaxation according to Ohno-Wang material model. Since the material model is highly non-linear, its parameter identification requires complex numerical procedures, carefully chosen algorithms and numerical operators, followed by software solution development. The developed automated system for material model parameter identification is validated by comparing the calculated with experimental response of the material. Its usage can make material behaviour modeling for numerous materials accurate, fast and user-friendly.	nld	Elsevier	2010	1.01	Computational materials science	1.458	2.13
11473174	Primjena faktorske analize u istraživanju uèinkovitosti lakaze za obezbojenje i razgradljivost sulfonskih reaktivnih bojila	The influence of oxidoreductase (laccase) and mediator (ABTS) quantities on decolouration and degradation of four vinylsulphone (anthraquinone and azo) reactive dyes after 24 hours of treatment in laccase optimum conditions (pH 5, T = 50 °C) was studied by two-level (min, max) and three-va- riable (X1, X2, X3) experimental design. The factor analysis methodology was used to study the relationship between the factors (process variables) and the responses (process parameters). Four response parameters, i.e. chemical oxygen demand (YCOD), biochemical oxygen demand (YBOD5), toxicity (YHt) and decolouration (YDecol.) of treated dye solutions were assumed to be the most important parameters at identifying the degree of dye degradation and intermediates formed, respectively. The relation of laccase (X1) and ABTS (X2) quantities were the main factors influencing the effectiveness of individual dye bio-transformation (YCOD, YBOD5) at defined dye concentration (X3). In con- trast, the degree of toxicity (YHt) was independent on the dye concentration applied (X3), but dependent on the chemical structure of the dye and the relation of the laccase (X1) and ABTS (X2) variables. The process variables showed no influence on the decolouration (YDecol.) confirming the laccase-mediator-substrate specificity. The results of the factor plan analysis showed limited application of the selected model at determining the significance of process variables on the response parameters of dye solutions.	hrv	Hrvatski inženjerski savez tekstilaca	2007	1.01	Tekstil	0.107	0.674
11478811	Digital curve length calculation by using B-spline	A new method for digital curve length calculation based on the approximation with a B-spline has been introduced where the control points of a B-spline curve are the pixel center points. An approximate length of the digital curve is determined by calculating the length of the continuous B-spline curve. In the paper several examples are presented and the calculated lengths are compared to other methods found in the literature. The advantage of the proposed method is in the approximation of the digital curve with the continuous curve rather than with piecewise linear sections used by most other methods.	nld	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2010	1.01	Journal of mathematical imaging and vision	1.244	0.936
11479062	Review of sustainability terms and their definitions	Terminology in the field of sustainable development is becoming increasingly important because the number of terms continues to increase along with the rapid increase in awareness of the importance of sustainability. Various definitions of terms are used by different authors and organizations, for example, green chemistry, cleaner production, pollution prevention, etc. The importance of this topic has stimulated research into the problems of clarifying ambiguity and classifying terms used in the sustainability field. This paper provides results of the literature survey and summarizes the definitions of the terms, focusing on the environmental engineering field. In some cases, it proposes an improved definition. A hierarchical classification of the terms and their relationships has been based on a layer format that is presented graphically.	gbr	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Journal of cleaner production	1.073	1.376
11479067	Identification and optimization of key process parameters in noncontact laser scanning for reverse engineering	This Extended Technical Note shows that the final accuracy level of reverse engineered surfaces depends on scanning distance and scanning angle of the laser beam, hence it also depends on the morphology of the scanned objects. On scanning strongly curved objects, such as the ones with free form surfaces, the distance and impact angle of the laser beam are changing continuously during the scanning process. On the basis of these, two critical parameters are specified for the design model, which make it possible to predict these two factors in advance, depending on the morphology of the scanned object. First, a mathematical-statistical design model of the scanning process is generated, which relies on ANOVA (analysis of variance) and DOE (design of experiments). In the next step, a fitness function is optimized by the genetic algorithm (GA) program. This optimization improves the accuracy of the final scanned surfaces, in terms of the minimum standard deviation values of reverse engineered 3D surface model. The proposed approach was confirmed in a case study, which is presented at the end of this Technical Note.	gbr	IPC Science and Technology Press	2010	1.01	Computer Aided Design	1.542	1.167
11479318	Optimization of a gas turbine in the methanol process, using the NLP model	Heat and power integration can reduce fuel usage, CO2 and SO2 emissions and, thereby, pollution. In the simultaneous heat and power integration approach and including additional production, the optimization problem is formulated using a simplified process superstructure. Nonlinear programming (NLP) contains equations which enable structural heat and power integration and parametric optimization. In the present work, the NLP model is formulated as an optimum energy target of process integration and electricity generation using a gas turbine with a separator. The reactor acts as a combustion chamber of the gas turbine plant, producing high temperature. The simultaneous NLP approach can account for capital cost, integration of combined heat and power, process modification, and additional production trade-offs accurately, and can thus yield a better solution. It gives better results than non-simultaneous methods. The NLP model does not guarantee a global cost optimum, but it does lead to good, perhaps near optimum designs. This approach is illustrated by an existing, complex methanol production process. The objective function generates a possible increase in annual profit of 1.7 M EUR/a.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2007	1.01	Applied Thermal Engineering	0.868	0.706
11481177	Invertibility preserving linear maps and algebraic reflexivity of elementary operators of length one	Let ?$X$? and ?$Y$? be real or complex Banach spaces. We show that a surjective linear map ?$\phi: {\mathcal B}(X) \to {\mathcal B}(Y)$? preserving invertibility in both directions is either of the form ?$\phi(T) = ATB$? or the form ?$\phi(T) = AT'B$?, where ?$A: X \to Y$?, ?$B: Y \to X$?, ?$C: X' \to Y$?, and ?$D: Y \to X'$? are bounded invertible linear operators. As an application we improve a result of Larson and Sourour on algebraic reflexivity of elementary operators of length one.	usa	American Mathematical Society	2002	1.01	Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society	0.334	0.504
11481366	2,4,6-trichlorophenyl acrylate emulsion-templated porous polymers (PolyHIPEs)	A series of monolithic crosslinked polymers with 2,4,6-trichlorophenyl acrylate as a reactive component was prepared by free radical polymerization of the internal phases of high internal phase emulsions (HIPEs). The volume ratio of water to oil phase (void volume; 60-90%), crosslinker type (divinylbenzene or ethylenglycol dimethacrylate) and quantity (30-50 mol %) and type of porogenic solvent (chlorobenzene, toluene, chloroform, dichloroethane) were altered to study these effects on the structure and reactivity of the monolithic polymers. The polymer supports were characterizedby scanning electron microscopy (SEM), FTIR spectroscopy, elemental analysis and mercury intrusion porosimetry. SEM images revealed an open cellular structure with voids between 1 and 12 ?$/mu$?m and window sizes between 0.3 and 3 ?$/mu$?m. The porogen had an influence on the surface area, being larger with added porogen and the influence being highest with toluene. Addingtoluene also influenced the void size, increasing the average diameter from 2 ?$/mu$?m (no porogen) to 12 ?$/mu$?m (added toluene). Monolithic supports were functionalized by reaction of the ester moieties with tris(2-aminoethyl)amine derivative and by hydrolysis of the ester groups to carboxylic acids.	usa	Wiley	2007	1.01	Journal of polymer science	3.529	1.528
11484187	Experimental investigation of energy saving in buildings with PCM cold storage	This article presents an experimental analysis of cooling buildings using night-time cold accumulation in a phase change material (PCM), otherwise knownas the free-cooling principle. Studies of the ceiling and floor free-cooling principle, as well as passive cooling, are presented. The free-cooling principle is explained and some of the types of PCMs suitable forsummer cooling are listed. An experiment was conducted using paraffin with a melting point of 22 °C as the PCM to store cold during the night-time and to cool hot air during the daytime in summer. Air temperatures, heat fluxes and heat as a function of time are presented for different air velocities and inlet temperatures.	gbr	Elsevier Science	2010	1.01	International journal of refrigeration	1.439	0.909
11485211	A level set method coupled with a volume of fluid method for modeling of gas-liquid interface in bubbly flow	This paper describes the implementation of a 3D parallel and Cartesian level set (LS) method coupled with a volume of fluid (VOF) method into the commercial CFD code FLUENT for modeling the gas-liquid interface in bubbly flow. Both level set and volume of fluid methods belong to the so called one fluid methods, where a single set of conservation equations is solved and the interface is captured via a scalar function. Since both LS and VOF have advantages and disadvantages, our aim is to couple these two methods to obtain a method, which is superior to both standalone LS and VOF and verify it versus a selection of test cases. VOF is already available in FLUENT, so we implemented an LS method into FLUENT via user defined functions. The level set function is used to compute the surface tension contribution to the momentum equations, via curvature and its normal to the interface, using the Brackbill method while the volume of fluid function is used to capture the interface itself. A re-initialization equation is implemented and solved at every time step using a fifth-order weighted essentially nonoscillatory schemefor the spatial derivative, and a first-order Euler method for time integration. The coupling effect is introduced by solving at the end of each time step an equation, which connects the volume fractions with the level set function. The verification of parasitic currents and interfacial deformation due to numerical error is assessed in comparison to original VOF scheme. Validation is presented for free rising bubbles of different diameters for Morton numbers ranging from 102 to 10-11.	usa	American Society of Mechanical Engineers	2010	1.01	Journal of fluids engineering	0.440	0.909
11486297	A min-max result on catacondensed benzenoid graphs	The resonance graph of a benzenoid graph ?$G$? has the 1-factors of ?$G$? as vertices, two 1-factors being adjacent if their symmetric difference forms the edge set of a hexagon of ?$G$?. It is proved that the smallest number of elementary cuts that cover a catacondensed benzenoid graph equals the dimension of a largest induced hypercube of its resonance graph.	gbr	Pergamon	2002	1.01	Applied Mathematics Letters	0.430	0.679
11487065	Modeling of amorphous solids by polyclustering technique	The paper presents certain aspects of theoretical modeling of amorphous solids at least some degree of local order. The local short-range order versus the long-range disorder of amorphous structure is described in terms of Voronoi polyhedra, so that the resulting topological tessellations form groups of polyclusters. Consequently, the polyclusters can be considered as individual elements of micromorphic continua. Master equations of micromorphic continua are then perceived as a fundamental set of field equations that are needed for further theoretical development of the model. The semi-discrete nature of field variables describing the kinematics of deformation in polyclusters leads to the natural choice of a pair potential function for modeling a short-range order. Finally, the problem of consistent transmition from micro to macro scale is addressed together with the question of a proper choice of a spatial averaging technique.	fra	Ed. de physique	2001	1.01	Journal de physique	0.401	1.515
11487321	Phenomenological modeling of shape memory effect using the concept of orientational back stress	A derivation of constitutive equations in a general three-dimensional setting is described, based on an additive decomposition of the rate of deformation tensor. The rate of deformation tensor is assumed to consist of an elastic part, a thermoelastic part, a plastic part, and a part due to phase transitions. The thermoelastic part due to thermoelastic coupling accounts for the influence of temperature near phase transformation, while the plastic part is taken in the form of classical flow theory of plasticity with combined isotropic and kinematic hardening, where the back stress represents a tensor of orientational microstresses. It is assumed that the part due to the phase transformation depends on the first of the second invariant of the tensor of crystallographic distortion, on the deviatoric part of the stress tensor, and on a special evolution parameter describing the rate of forming of a new phase. The derived constitutive equation is given in an explicit form with the corresponding tensor generators on the representation together with the irreducible integrity basis of the relevant tensor functions.	fra	Ed. de physique	2001	1.01	Journal de physique	0.401	1.515
11488601	On Herstein's Lie map conjectures, III	In the two papers ""On Herstein's Lie map conjectures, I and II"", solutions of all Herstein's problems concerning Lie isomorphisms and derivations were given under the assumption that the algebras involved were of ""sufficienty high"" dimension. In the present paper we remove this restriction, thereby solving Herstein's problems in full generality.	usa	Academic Press	2002	1.01	Journal of algebra	0.501	0.504
1149247	Conservative treatment of female urinary incontinence with functional magnetic stimulation	Objectives. To determine the efficacy and safety of functional magnetic stimulation (FMS) produced by the Pulsegen device compared with placebo in the treatment of women with urinary incontinence. Methods. Fifty-five women with urinary incontinence were randomly assigned to the active FMS group (30 patients) or the placebo group (22 patients). Each patient in the active group received a Pulsegen device, which produced a pulsating magnetic field of B = 10 micro T intensity and a frequency of 10 Hz. Patients were asked to wear the Pulsegen device day and night for 2 months. Clinical and urodynamic data were collected before and after FMS and analyzed using nonparametric statistics. Results. Compared with the placebo, the number of pads used was significantly lower (P = 0.0031) after FMS, as was the pad weight (P = 0.014). In patients from the active group, a significant improvement in the power of the pelvic floor muscle contractions (P = 0.0071), as well as in the duration of the pelvic floor muscle contractions (P = 0.038), was observed. After FMS, a 56.3% improvement in urinary incontinence symptoms was reported by patients in the active group, a significantly greater difference (P = 0.00012) compared with the reported 26.3% improvement in symptoms in the placebo group. Conclusions. We believe that FMS represents a new method in the conservative treatment of urinary incontinence. Magnetic stimulation with the Pulsegen device is efficient and safe. It can be used at home and, because of its small size, wearing the device is not annoying for patients.	usa	Cahners Pub. Co., etc.	2003	1.01	Urology	2.782	1.707
11498201	Rapid regulated dense-core vesicle exocytosis requires the CAPS protein	Although many proteins essential for regulated neurotransmitter and peptide hormone secretion have been identified, little is understood about their precise roles at specific stages of the multistep pathway of exocytosis. To study the function of CAPS (Ca2+ -dependent activator protein for secretion), a protein required for Ca2+ -dependent exocytosis of dense-core vesicles, secretory responses in single rat melanotrophs were monitored by patch-clamp membrane capacitance measurements. Flash photolysis of caged Ca2+ elicited biphasic capacitance increases consisting of rapid and slow components with distinct Ca2+ dependencies. A threshold of è10 microM Ca2+ was required to trigger the slow component, while the rapid capacitance increase was recorded already at a intracellular Ca2+ activity < 10 microM. Both kinetic membrane capacitance components were abolished by botulinum neurotoxin B or E treatment, suggesting involvement of SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitivefactor attachment protein receptor)-dependent vesicle fusion. The rapid but not the slow component was inhibited by CAPS antibody. These results were further clarified by immunocytochemical studies that revealed that CAPS was present on only a subset of dense-core vesicles. Overall, the results indicate that dense-core vesicle exocytosis in melanotrophs occurs by two parallel pathways. The faster pathway exhibits highsensitivity to Ca2+ and requires the presence of CAPS, which appears to act at a late stage in the secretory pathway.	usa	National Academy of Sciences	2000	1.01	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	10.789	1.74
1150015	Measurement of simple reaction time in antipsychotic treatment of patients with schizophrenia	Background: The role of simple reaction time in schizophrenia has been extensively reported to date in professional literature. However, most studies have examined basic reaction time under static conditions using a single measurement. The aim of the present study was to establish whether any changes occur in simple reaction time during treatment with risperidone or olanzapine in in-patients suffering a relapse of schizophrenia. Methods: Seventeen in-patients suffering acute relapse of schizophrenia (DSM IV criteria) and twenty matched, healthy controls participated in an eight-week, double-blind pilot study. The patients were treated with conventional antipsychotics for seven days after admission and were then randomised to the treatment arms with risperidone (4 mg/day) or with olanzapine (10 mg/day) at afixed dosage in the first week and thereafter in flexible dosages for the remaining seven weeks. Since no differences were found between reaction times of patients treated with risperidone or olanzapine, the two treatment groups were merged in the statistical analysis before being compared with the normal controls. Psychopathological symptoms were assessed using the Positive and Negative Symptom Scale (PANSS) and extrapyramidal symptoms with the Simpson Angus Scaleand Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale. Reaction time was measured with the Alpha apparatus, connected to a personal computer. All assessments and measurements were conducted four times during the treatment phase of the study. Results: The reaction time of patients was significantly longer than that of the healthy controls (t1 = 17.11; p1 < 0.05). After eight weeks of treatment the reaction time of patients significantly improved but did not reach that of the healthy controls (t4 = 28.18, p4 < 0.05). Furthermore, the improved reaction time in the patients did not correlate with improvement of psychopathological symptoms or with improved extrapyramidal symptoms. Conclusion: The results of the study suggest that simple reaction time can improve during treatment with atypical antipsychotics.	aut	Springer	2003	1.01	Wiener Klinische Wochenschrift	0.774	2.111
1150031	New data on the cuskeel, Ophidion rochei (Osteichthyes: Ophidiidae), from the eastern Adriatic	The occurence, meristic, length frequency, condition factor, length-weight relationship and day/night differences in catch are reported for a population of cuskeel Ophidion rochei at Duce-Glava...	gbr	Cambridge University Press	2002	1.01	Journal of the Marine Biological Association of the United Kingdom	0.604	1.138
11502870	The calculation of thermal conductivity, viscosity and thermodynamic properties for nanofluids on the basis of statistical nanomechanics	The paper features the mathematical model of calculation of thermophysical properties for nanofluids on the basis of statistical nanomechanics. Calculation of properties for nanofluids for real substances is possible by the classical and statistical mechanics. Classical mechanics has no insight into the microstructure of the substance. Statistical mechanics, on the other hand, calculates the properties of state on the basis of molecular motions in a space, and on the basis of the intermolecular interactions. The equations obtained by means of classical thermomechanics are empirical and apply only in the region under observation. The main drawback of classical thermomechanicsis that it lacks the insight into the substance of microstructure. Contrary to classical mechanics, statistical mechanics calculates the thermomechanic properties of state on the basis of intermolecular and intramolecular interactions between particles in the same system of molecules. It deals with the systems composed of a very large number of particles. The results of the analysis are compared with experimental data and show a relatively good agreement. The analytical results obtained by statistical mechanics are compared with the experimental data and show relatively good agreement.	gbr	Pergamon Press.	2007	1.01	International journal of heat and mass transfer	1.500	0.706
11504411	The evolution of effective elastic properties of a cold formed stainless steel sheet	In accordance with the great importance given to the subject of stiffness degradation, in particular with regard to metal forming, this work experimentally investigates the anisotropic elastic properties of plastically prestrained cold-rolled sheet metal (stainless steel EN 1.4301, also AISI 304). From the experiments performed, two main conclusions regarding stiffness degradation can be extracted. First, since under specific stretching the intensity of the normalized Youngs moduli degradation in both directions remains approximately similar, it may be concluded that the potential initial elastic anisotropy tends to be preserved during loading. Second, as the evidenced stiffness degradation has proved to be strongly correlated with the stretching direction of the sheet metal, it can be concluded that the stiffness evolution in the cold rolled sheet steel is path dependent. These interesting discoveries also provide some answers for modelling the kinetic damage evolution laws in damage mechanics.	gbr	Society for Experimental Stress Analysis.	2010	1.01	Experimental mechanics	1.854	0.911
11505179	Fluorescence temperature system design based on synthetic oxide crystal	This article provides a description of the system for measuring temperature with Cr-doped crystals and a USB spectrometer. The same principle of measurement may also be used for other thermographic materials characterized by multiple spectral lines of different temperature sensitivities. The article presents some of the results obtained in the development of new generation temperature sensors that apply fluorescent synthetic oxide crystals. Such sensors have potential uses in biomedicine and in highly exacting industrial applications. Research involved some temperature optical characteristics of synthetic oxide crzstals with an Al2O3 basis, such as Cr3tMgAl2O4(Cr: Spinel) and Cr3tZ3Al5O12(Cr:YAG), but also other variations doped with rare earth oxides. The method of measuring fluorescence intensity ratio and fluorescence lifetime is examined in detail. The article also provides a description of meter equipment used in measuring the fluorescence intensity ratio and fluorescence lifetime. Computer hardware and software for processing generated measurement signals are catalogued. A short review of obtained results and potential uses of such sensors in the field of temperature metrology is given in the final section of the article.	usa	Marcel Dekker, Inc.	2010	1.01	Instrumentation science & technology	0.448	1.273
11506777	Polarization enhanced [sup] 14 N NQR detection with a nonhomogeneous magnetic field	The use of proton polarization enhancement of low frequency ?$^{14}N$? NQR signals was tested. An improvement of NQR signals was observed in samples of (?$N_3(NO_2)_3(CH_2)_3$?, ?$(CH_2)_6N_4$? and ?$(NO_2)C_6H_4COOH$?). A very nonhomogeneous magnetic field obtained with a permanent magnet was used for proton polarization.	usa	Pergamon Press	2002	1.01	Solid state communications	1.671	1.524
11507033	Labeled K [sub] {2,t} minors in plane graphs	Let ?$G$? be a 3-connected planar graph and let ?$U \subseteq V(G)$?. It is shown that ?$G$? contains a ?$K_{2,t}$? minor such that ?$t$? is larha and each vertex of degree 2 in ?$K_{2,t}$? corresponds to some vertex of ?$U$? if and only if there is no small face cover of ?$U$?. This result cannot be extended to 2-connected planar graphs.	usa	Academic Press	2002	1.01	Journal of combinatorial theory	0.758	0.504
11507161	An evaluation of patient satisfaction with family practice care in Slovenija	Objective. To describe the level of patient satisfaction with family practice in Slovenia. Design. An internationally developed instrument for patients evaluations of general practice care was used in a postal survey. Setting. A representative sample of 36 family practices in Slovenia. Study participants. Sixty consecutive patients in every practice were approached and offered a self-administered questionnaire. A total of 2160 questionaires were handed out. Main outcome measure. Percentages of patients reporting level of satisfaction on a 5-point Likert scale for the items in the questionnaire. Results. On average 58.2% of respondents rated the level of care received as excellent. Waiting in the waiting room was the item poorest (26.0%). Participants were also less satisfield with perceived time during the consultation (51.6%) and with connectional aspects of care: the feeling that family practitioners showed interest in their personal situation (46.5%); the feeling that family practitioners made it easy to explain problems (49.1%). Onthe other hand patients praised many other aspects of family practice care in Slovenia: confidentiality of medical records (77.0%); listening capacoty oftheir family physicians (69.4%); being able to speak to the family practitioner on the phone (72%).	gbr	Elsevier	2000	1.01	International journal for quality in health care	0.744	1.153
11507289	Coloring locally bipartite graphs on surfaces	It is proved that there is a function ?$f: \NN \to \NN$? such that the following holds. Let ?$G$? be a graph embedded in a surface of Euler genus ?$g$? with all faces of even size and with edge-width ?$\ge f(g)$?. Then (i) If every contractible 4-cycle of ?$G$? is facial and there is a face of size ?$>4$?, then ?$G$? is 3-colorable. (ii) If ?$G$? is a quadrangulation, then ?$G$? is not 3-colorable if and only if there exist disjoint surface separating cycles ?$C_1,...,C_g$? such that, after cutting along ?$C_1,...,C_g$?, we obtain a sphere with ?$g$? holes and ?$g$? Möbius strips, an odd number of which is nonbipartite.	usa	Academic Press	2002	1.01	Journal of combinatorial theory	0.758	0.504
11507417	Antigenic properties and diagnostic potential of recombinant Dobrava virus nuleocapsid protein	Dobrava hantavirus (DOBV) causes severe hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome in the Balkan region and has been detected recently also in Russia, Estonia, and Germany. DOBV nucleocapsid protein (N) was produced in insect cells, usingthe baculovirus expression system (bac-DOBV-N), and in E. coli as a truncated (aa1-165) glutathione-S transferase fusion protein (DOBV-dN-GST). The antigenic properties of bac-DOBV-N were found identical to native DOBV-N when examined by a panel of hantavirus-specific monoclonal antibodies. Enzyme immunoassays for detection of IgM and IgG antibodies were set up using DOBV recombinat N proteins and compared with those based on recombinant Hantaan andPuumala virus N, using panels of sera collected from DOBV, Hantaan and Puumala virus-infected patients. Full-length N protein (bac-DOBV-N) was found to be a more sensitive antigen than DOBV-dN-GST. The sensitivity values for sera from DOBV-infected patients were 100% for bac-DOBV-N and 86% for DOBV-dN-GST by iGM assays, and 98% for bac-DOBV-N and 88% for DOBV-dN-GST by IgG assays. The specificity values were 100% for bac-DOBV-N and 99% for DOBV-dN-GST by IgM assays, and 100% for both antigens by IgG assays.	usa	Alan R. Liss	2000	1.01	Journal of medical virology	3.289	2.481
11508246	Atrazine removal by covalent bonding to piperazine functionalized PolyHIPEs	The removal of atrazine from water by a solid phase extraction technique usinginsoluble polymers is described. Porous crosslinked polymers bearing piperazine moieties were prepared in a one step reaction from the precursor 4-nitrophenylacrylate incorporating polymers (PolyHIPE type prepared by the polymerization of the continuous phase of a high internal phase emulsion and polymer beads prepared by suspension polymerization). Polymers were applied tosequester atrazine from aqueous solutions with a concentration of 33 ppb andirreversible covalent bonding to the polymers was achieved. GC/MS/MS was used to monitor the dynamics of atrazine uptake and it was found that almost complete removal of atrazine was acomplished with an excess of polymer after 48 hours at room temperature. For comparison, polymer beads of identical chemistry but lower porosity were also used and showed significantly slower action (near complete removal after 72 hours).	nld	Elsevier	2007	1.01	Science of the total environment	2.182	1.582
11508441	Clinical distinction between human granulocytic ehrlichiosis and the initial phase of tick-borne encephalitis	Objectives: The aim of our study was to establish clinical and laboratory differences between patients with acute human granulocytic ehrlichiosis (HGE) and patients with the initial phase of tick-borne encephalitis (TBE). Methods:Clinical features and laboratory results of four patients with acute HGE (established by the presence of the specific DNA sequences of the HGE agent in whole blood by polymerase chain reaction and/or by seroconversion to the HGE agent by indirect immunofluorescence assay) and 12 patients with the initial phase of TBE (demonstrated by the presence of serum IgM antibodies to TBE virus) were compared. All these patients were uncovered at the Department of Infectious Diseases, University Medical Centre, Ljubljana, Slovenia, during1995-1996, in a prospective study on the aetiology of febrile illnesses occurring within 6 weeks after a tick bite. Results: Findings were similar forthe majority of the examined parameters including severity of illness, level and duration of fever, presence of headache, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and liver-function test abnormalities. Statistically significant differences were found only for arthralgia (P=0.026) and elevated concentration of C-reactive protein (P=0.003); both variables were found more often in patients with acute HGE. Conclusion: In a patient residing in the central part of Slovenia, who reports a tick bite followed by a febrile illness with leukopenia and/or thrombocytopenia, the presence of arthralgias and/or an elevated C-reactive protein value directs toward the diagnosis of acute HGE and against the initial phase of TBE.	gbr	Academic Press	2000	1.01	The Journal of infection	1.188	2.159
11512025	Morphology of FRTL-5 cell colonies in a semi-solid medium	For the first time, 3.7 and 10 days growth of normal thyroid follicular FRTL-5cell colonies in a semi-solid medium of 0.6% methocel over 1% agar base was morphometrically analyzed. It was found that the areas of FRTL-5 colonies as well as their perimeters and maximum diameters increased, while according to their form factors the FRTL-5 colonies were regular in shape. After 10 daysin a semi-solid medium, 83% of the FRTL-5 colonies had maximum diameters greater than 50 um. It is obvious that after long culturing of FRTL-5 cells under the influence of the pituitary thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) these cells are not uniform anymore and that they grow in a semi-solid medium.	gbr	Editrice Kurtis	2000	1.01	Journal of endocrinological investigation	1.398	2.51
11512091	A machine-vision system for automated quality control of welded rings	In this paper we describe the development and application of an intelligent measuring control system with integrated robot vision, to enable the solving of complex assembly and quality control tasks with high accuracy and speed. The existing quality-control procedure for welded rings involves a visual observation of the inner surface of the welded ring and the use of calipers. As explained in Section Determination of the control goals, this leads to limitation of the ring accuracy and the ability to detect faults. To overcome these limitations we have developed a noncontact control method implemented inthe machine-vision system. The development and application of machine-visionis a multifold problem. It requires a great amount of expert knowledge, experience and innovation. We present a machine-vision system consisting of a mathematical algorithm developed for accurate measurement of the diameter and roundness of welded rings, to be used along with physical measurements. The principle of the measuring method and the required equipment are given in Section Main idea of the measurement. Section Theoretical description of the algorithm contains themathematical formulation implemented in a computer algorithm for the measured parameters. Section Algorithm verification and the necessary corrections describes analytical experiments conducted to verify the accuracy of the algorithm and derive necessary corrections. Three systems with different range of quality and accuracy are compared and discussed at the end of the paper. The developed machine-vision measuring system was successfully implemented in industrial application, thus eliminating human subjectivity.	usa	Springer	2011	1.01	Machine vision and applications	1.009	1.153
11512281	Role of third intracellular loop of galanin receptor type 1 in signal transdution	To determine the domains essential for G-protein coupling of the human galaninreceptor type 1 (GalR1), we have used both GalR1 mutants and synthetic receptor-derived peptides in 125I-galanin and (35S)-GTPyS binding studies. Replacement of potential phosphorylation sites by Leu in the third intracellular loop (IC3) of GalR1 did not affect KD values for the receptor. Peptides derived form the IC3 loop, and especially the N-terminal part of it were able to increase the rate of (35S)-GTPyS binding to the trimeric Gia1By2,but not to GsAB1y2, whereas the peptides corresponding to the IC1 and IC2 loops had no such effect. IC3 loop peptides also inhibited the binding of 125I-galanin to GalR1 in membranes from Rin m5F cells. Our results suggest that the IC3 loop of GalR1, especially its N-terminal part, defines the coupling of the receptor to the Gia1By2 protein and consequently, to the signal transduction cascade.	gbr	Churchill Livingstone	2000	1.01	Neuropeptides	1.413	2.536
11512793	Anal sphincter electromyography after vaginal delivery	The study was performed to evaluate the potential role of vaginal delivery on innervation of the external anal sphincter (EAS) muscle. Forty-four women, 18 nulliparous and 26 of varying parity (1-4), without genitourinary prolapse, major urogynecological, anorectal, or neurological dysfunction were included. Participants histories were evaluated by a questionnaire. Quantitative concentric needle electromyography (EMG) using multi-MUP analysis for samplingmonitor unit potentials (MUPs) an all volunteers, and ""turn/amplitude""analysis for interference pattern (IP) analysis in 13 nulliparous and 23 parous women were applied. Pools of MUPs and IPs of parous and nulliparous women were formed and compared using the Mann-Whitney U test. Multiple linear regression analysis was used for evaluation of parity and obstetric variables. No difference between the groups was found in any MUP parameter, while a significant difference was found in two of five IP parameters. On multiple linear regression analysis, the number of deliveries was related to several MUP and IP parameters: the time elapsed since last delivery to MUP, and slight stress urinary incontinence to IP parameters. A group of parous women with (slight) stress incontinence had less ""pathologic"" MUP parameters, compared to those without. Vaginal delivery is indeed related to EAS muscle EMG abnormalities. However, these are minor and seem not to indicate loss of sphincter function. Our study casts some doubt on the commonly accepted preconception that significant damage to peripheral innervation of the EAS occurs even during uncomplicated deliveries.	usa	Allen R. Liss	2000	1.01	Neurourology and urodynamics	1.968	1.626
11513561	Spatial and temporal dynamics of Puumala hantavirus infection in red bank vole (Clethrionomys glareolus) populations in Belgium	Dynamics of hantavirus infection and population densities in rodents were investigated from 1996 to 1999 in southern Belgium. Evidence of Puumala infection was restricted to Clethrionomys glareolus. Although the serotype wasnot determined, antibodies against hantavirus were also found in eight Apodemus sylvaticus. In fall 1996, the seroprevalence in C. glareolus was high(20.1%, 37 of 184) and the infection was widely distributed in the area studied whereas a focal occurrence of positive rodents and lower seroprevalence rates were recorded in spring 1997 (14.3%, six of 42), fall 1997 (6.6%, 11 of 166), spring 1998 (6.4%, three of 47) and fall 1998 (6.7%, 11 of 165). A pullulation of rodents was observed in spring 1999 and was associated with a markedly higher seroprevalence in C. glareolus (47.7%, 189 of 396). In all seasons, infection rates in adults were higher than in juveniles and subadults. No significant difference of prevalence was recorder between males and females. In two trapping sites, the temporary disappearance of positive animals after a crach in rodent populations suggests that a threshold in density is necessary for the maintenance of the enzootic cycle.	nld	Elsevier	2000	1.01	Virus Research	1.561	2.481
11514073	Morphometry of the FRTL-5 cells after irradiation	The morphological changes of in vitro irradiated FRTL-5 cells and their ability to grow in semi-solid medium were studied morphometrically. FRTL-5 cells were grown in medium with 4 different concentrations of TSH (0, 0.1, 1, 10 mU/ml). After irradiation with 0 Gy, 2 Gy and 4 Gy, the cells were seeded on glass cover-slips and in methocel. Fourteen days after irradiation, the morphometric analysis of FRTL-5 cells and their nuclei was performed. The results showed that irradiation and different doses of TSH have influence on FRTL-5 cell size, more on their nuclei than on the cell as a whole. Growing ofFRTL-5 cells in the methocel indicates the possible transformation of these cells after long-culturing in the TSH medium and after irradiation.	hun	Akadémiai Kiadó	2000	1.01	Acta biologica Hungarica	0.291	1.778
1151591	Deformation characteristics of lacustrine carbonate silt in Julian Alps	The deformation characteristics, shear moduli and damping ratios of reconstituted lacustrine carbonate silt samples were investigated in a different kinds of laboratory test. Material from a landslide that occurred in a seismically very active area in Slovenia was used in the test. The initial values of this material`s deformation characteristics and the extent to which these values change due to increasing shear strain depend on a number of factors, such as the degree of saturation, the initial void ratio, over-consolidation, and the effective stresses. The use of a volumetric threshold strain has proved to be the best way of describing the shear modulus reduction curve irrespective of any other factors, and it fits well with the data obtained in the experiments. The critical state and consolidation lines for the investigated material are presented in the paper as deformational characteristics at critical strain levels. The material`s liquefaction potential was studied for certain in situ conditions.	gbr	CML Publications	2006	1.01	Soil dynamics and earthquake engineering	0.760	0.683
11515931	Influence of texturing parameters and contact conditions on tribological behaviour of laser textured surfaces	Introducing specific textures on a tribological surface can contribute to friction reduction in sliding contacts. Well defined micro-dimples can act as lubricant reservoirs capable of feeding lubricant directly into the contact and initiating micro elastohydrodynamic lubrication, as well as traps for wearde bris. A lot of experimental work has been already carried out, but it is mostly based on trial and error approach when defining optimum textures for a given application. A comparison was made between the performance of a reference non-textured surface and laser surface texturing (LST) discs with three different dimple depths. It was found that tribological behaviour depends on the depth of the micro-dimples as well as on the dominant lubrication mode (operating conditions). The beneficial effect of micro-dimples becomes larger with an increase in dimple depth as well as for higher sliding speeds.	ita	Tamburini Editore SpA	2010	1.01	Meccanica	1.056	1.214
1151601	Network structure of cellulose ethers used in pharmaceutical applications during swelling and equilibrium	Purpose. The purpose of this work was to investigate the swelling behavior of four cellulose ethers that differ in their type and degree of substitution andto elucidate the network structure of the swollen matrices under dynamic and equilibrium conditions. Methods. Dynamic vapor sorption was performed to assess the ability of polymer chains and water molecules to interact. Dynamic and equilibrium swelling studies were performed to calculate molecular parameters of swollen polymers using the Flory-Rehner theory. Results. We determined the volume-swelling ratio of the polymer matrices and observed thatit was dependent on their hydrophilicity. We determined molecular parameters that characterize the swollen hydrogels of cellulose derivatives, such as the polymer volume fraction in the swollen state, upsilon(2,S), the effective molecular weight of the polymer chain between physical entanglements, (M) over bar (e), the number of repeating units between two entanglements, u, and the number of entanglements per chain, e. The (M) over bar (e) of the cellulose derivatives studied varied significantly depending onthe type of cellulose ether and on the swelling time. Conclusions. The orderof mesh size, an important parameter for predicting drug diffusion and release, taking into account all determined parameters, isÈ hydroxypropyl cellulose < hydroxyethyl cellulose < hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose K100M < hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose K4M.	nld	Thieme	2002	1.01	Pharmaceutical research	2.354	1.557
11519254	Permanent magnet brushless DC motor - integrated motor drive electrical subsystem simulation	The paper presents an accurate and fast model for permanent magnet brushless OG motor drive electrical subsystem simulation. The cDupling between the motormodel and extemal circuits is represented in a form of complete electric circuit model. The complete electric circuit model was implemented and solved in the Matlab/Simulink environment.	pol	Wydawnictwo Czasopism i Ksiêa¿ek Technicznych ""Sigma""	2007	1.01	Przeglêad Elektrotechniczny	0.196	1.193
11520089	On (co)homology locally connected spaces	We prove that there exist a cohomology locally connected compact metrizable space which is not homology locally connected. (In the category of the compact normal spaces this result was proved earlier by G. E. Bredon.) Our example is also 2-dimensional and acyclic with respect to Èech cohomology.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Topology and its Applications	0.285	0.504
1152369	Rutin in buckwheat herbs grown at different UV-B radiation levels: comparison of two UV spectrophotometric and an HPLC method	Rutin is an antioxidant with many interesting pharmacological effects. It can also be found in buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench). UV radiation stimulates the activity of enzymes of the phenylpropanoid pathway and there issome evidence that it influences the rutin content in plants. The aim of thepresent research was (1) to examine the influence of different levels of UV-B radiation on rutin content and (2) to compare the results obtained by three analytical methods. The plants were grown under three UV-B levelsÈ reduced, ambient and enhanced, simulating 17% ozone depletion. Analyses were performed by HPLC and two spectrophotometric methods. In one, the absorbancieswere measured at 420 nm with and without the addition of AlCl3. Inanother method the concentration was calculated from absorbancies at 352.5 nm and 366.5 nm according to the Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC International. The highest amounts of rutin were found in flowers, followed byleaves and stems. A comparison of the different treatments revealed that thehighest amounts of rutin were in plants grown under ambient radiation, followed by the plants cultivated under enhanced UV-B and then under reduced UV-B radiation. Treatments caused more effect on leaves than on flowers. Leaves developed under ambient light conditions contained 97% more rutin than leaves grown under reduced UV-B radiation. In flowers, the contents differed by 19% only. The results obtained using the three methods showed a good correlation, but the absolute differences were surprisingly high. The AOAC andthe AlCl3 methods gave, on average, 140% and 30% higher results than HPLC, respectively	gbr	Clarendon Press	2002	1.01	Journal of Experimental Botany	2.852	1.444
11524374	2D analytical solution of magnetic field in linear permanent magnet synchronous machine; comparison of analytical and numerical solution of magnetic field by permanent magnets	The comparison between analytical and numerical (finite element method (FEM)) solution of magnetic field by permanent magnets (PMs) excitation in linear permanent magnet synchronous machine (LPMSM) is presented. Both analytical and numerical solutions are obtained from 20 analysis via magnetic vector potential. It is shown that good agreement between both is obtained.	pol	Wydawnictwo Czasopism i Ksiêa¿ek Technicznych ""Sigma""	2007	1.01	Przeglêad Elektrotechniczny	0.196	1.193
11525977	Gambler's Ruin Problem in several dimensions	We give an explicit solution of the Gambler's Ruin Problem when the players use two or more currencies. We also determine the asymptotics of the expected duration of the game when both players have equal amounts of each currency.	usa	Academic Press.	2002	1.01	Advances in applied mathematics	0.522	0.679
1152649	Efficacy of CCA and Tanalith E treated pine fence to fungal decay after ten years in service	In response to environmental and health concerns over the use of CCA in wood preservation, there has been an increase in the development and use of arsenic and chromium free copper-based alternatives in recent years. One of the most promising alternatives to CCA is a copper-organic system, like Tanalith E, which is widely used out of the ground and is particularly suitable for wood used in outdoor applications. This is also accompanied by many attempts to understand the mechanism of copper tolerance by wood decay fungi. Samples made from CCA and Tanalith E impregnated fence (pine) palings that had been in service for ten years, were exposed to four different brown rot fungi (Antrodia vaillantii, Leucogyrophana pinastri, Poria monticola and Gloeophyllum trabeum) according to EN 113 procedure. After 16 weeks, the samples were isolated and their mass losses determined. They were also analysed using electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR). The CCA and Tanalith E treated wood were found to be resistant against the Cu-sensitive G. trabeum. L. pinastri and P. monticola decayed the Tanalith E but not the CCA treated samples. However, the Cu-tolerant A. vaillantii decayed both the Tanalith E and the CCA treated samples. The EPR spectra of the treated wood before and after exposure to the fungi, have shown the important role of oxalic acid in fungal tolerance of copper.	svk	Slovak Forest Products Research Institute	2004	1.01	Wood research	0.059	0.492
11528409	Bioactive alkylpyridinium compounds from marine sponges	Marine sponges are a rich source of structurally novel and biologically activemolecules. Among them is a class of alkylpyridinium compounds commonly found in sponges belonging to the order Haplosclerida. Alkylpyridinium compounds exert several biological activities and are therefore interesting aspotential therapeutics. This review presents most alkylpyridinium and some other pyridinium compounds that have been isolated from marine sponges so far.The compounds are listed according to their basic structural types with indications of their biological properties and their possible significance in sponge taxonomy.	usa	M. Dekker	2000	1.02	Journal of toxicology	1.113	1.638
11529305	Complexity theory for Lie-group solvers	Commencing with a brief survey of Lie-group theory and differential equations evolving on Lie groups, we describe a number of numerical algorithms designed to respect Lie-group structure: Runge-Kutta-Munthe-Kaas schemes, Fer and Magnus expansions. This is followed by derivation of the computational cost of Fer and Magnus expansions, whose conclusion is that for order four, six, and eight an appropriately diskretized Magnus method is always cheaper then a Fer method of the same order. Each Lie-group method of the kind surveyed in yhis paper requires the computation of a matrix exponential. Classical methods, e.g. Krylov-subspace and rational approximants, may fail to map elements in a Lie algebra to a Lie group. Therefore, we survey a number of approximants based on the splitting approach and demonstrate that their cost is compatible (and often superior) to classical methods.	usa	Academic Press	2002	1.01	Journal of complexity	0.892	0.679
11533785	The structure and function of songs emitted by southern green stink bugs from Brazil, Florida, Italy and Slovenia	Nezara viridula (L.) (Pentatomidae: Heteroptera) from Brazil, Florida. Italy and Slovenia, communicate by vibratory songs associated with long-range calling and close-range courting, rivalry and repelling. Each song is composedof spectrally and temporally different units. Spectrally different pulses of duration less than 300ms are present in the male calling song. The female calling song is characterized by pulse trains composed of pulses shorter than 150 ms and pulse trains composed of a longer (> 700 ms) and shorter (< 250 ms) pulse. Shorter and longer pulses have different spectral characteristics. The male and female courtship songs are characterized by fusion of shorter (< 150 ms) pulses into a pulse train usually followed by a shorter (< 200 ms) postpulse in the case of the male courtship song. The female repelling song is a several seconds long vibration of irregular temporal structure. The short (< 400 ms) male rival song pulses are frequency modulated. The dominant frequency peaks of the songs investigated lie between 70 and 130 Hz. The dominant frequency and the microstructure of song spectra show no population specificity. The average duration varies more in calling than in courtship songs. The repetition time varies extensively in songs of different populations. Normal communication followed by copulation was observed between mates from Slovenia and Brazil and between mates from Floridaand Italy. The potential role of different temporal and spectral parameters for species recognition and mate location is discussed in view of the expected distortion of the characteristic signal structure during transmission through plants.	gbr	Blackwell Scientific Publications	2000	1.01	Physiological entomology	0.853	0.794
11534041	Polymerase chain reaction as a diagnostic tool for detecting Leishmania	Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has been used to identify a Leishmania parasite in a cutaneous ulcer from a 27-year-old patient infected during travel in Peru.The available classical diagnostic methods could not confirm the diagnosis in a sufficiently short time. Therefore, two sets of oligonucleotides were designed and with both of them fragments of the expectedsize were obtained. The sequence of the fragment derived from kinetoplast DNA corresponds to the Leishmania Viannia complex. Polymerase chain reaction has advantages over classical diagnostic methods, which makes it an important technique in those hospitals and clinical laboratories in Europe which lack standard diagnostic tests for Leishmania.	deu	MMV-Medizin-Verlag	2000	1.01	Infection	1.254	2.159
11535382	A unified approach to grapheme-to-phoneme conversion for the plattos slovenian text-to-speech system	This article presents a new unified approach to modeling grapheme-to-phoneme conversion for the PLATTOS Slovenian text-to-speech system. A cascaded structure consisting of several successive processing steps is proposed for the aim of grapheme-to-phoneme conversion. Processing foreign words and rules for the post-processing of phonetic transcriptions are also incorporated in the engine. The grapheme-to-phoneme conversion engine is flexible, efficient, and appropriate for multilingual text-to-speech systems. The grapheme-to-phoneme conversion process is described via finite-state machine formalism. The engine developed for Slovenian language can be integrated into various applications but can be even more efficiently integrated into architectures based on finite-state machine formalisms. Provided the necessary language resources are available, the presented approach can also be used for other languages.	usa	Hemisphere Pub. Co.	2007	1.01	Applied artificial intelligence	0.753	0.927
11539990	An efficient approximation of arbitrary curves and surfaces using intersecting polylines and meshes	This paper presents an efficient method for approximating curves and surfaces. An idea is introduced using a circle, where an arc-intersecting polyline is used instead of the traditional inner-arc polyline. The approach is then generalized to arbitrary 2D curves. The method is extended into 3D, where the approximation of spherical surface is developed based on surface-intersecting facets. Finally, a method is described for approximating the general curved surface. Theoretical analysis and the experimental results showed that the new algorithm requires considerably less geometric data at the same approximation error than the traditional one.	gbr	Elsevier Applied Science	2008	1.01	Advances in engineering software	1.188	1.281
11540502	Phase equilibria of vanillins in compressed gases	Solid-liquid phase transitions of vanillin, ethylvanillin, o-vanillin and o-ethylvanillin in compressed hydrocarbons (isobutane and propane), fluorinated hydrocarbons (R23, R134a and R236fa) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) were determined with a modified capillary method in a pressure range between 0.1 and 31.0 MPa. Equilibrium solubilities of vanillins in compressed fluorinated hydrocarbons were determined at temperatures 313.2 and 333.2 K and over a pressure range between 1.1 and 26.0 MPa with a static-analytic method. Experimental solubility data were correlated by a density-based Chrastil model. Results showed that phase equilibria of vanillins in investigated compressed gases are influenced by the type of alchoxy group (methoxy or ethoxy) and the position of OH group (ortho or para), bound to the aromatic ring of solute, as well as the molecular structure of the gas. Three phase SLG curves in p,T-projections mainly exhibited temperature minimums and negative slopes dp/dT, with a maximum melting point depression between 9 and 21 K; all systems with SF6 exhibited a continuous positive slope dp/dT of approximately 4.5 MPa/K. SLG curves with a temperature maximum at low pressure were observed for systems of o-vanillins with R23. Solubilities of o-vanillins in R23 and R236fa were higher in comparison with p-vanillins, whereas, in the case of R134a, the solubilities were influenced by the alchoxy group bound on aromatic ring: vanillin and o-vanillin with methoxy group are more soluble than vanillins with ethoxy group (ethylvanillin and o-ethylvanillin). The highest solubility of all four vanillins was observed in R236fa.	nld	PRA Press	2007	1.01	The Journal of supercritical fluids	2.189	1.015
11541014	Fuzzy Logic Model for the performance benchmarking of sugar plants by considering best available techniques	This paper deals with the problem of performance benchmarking of traditional beet sugar plants, by considering Best Available Techniques (BAT) for beet sugar production, as determined by the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) Directive. A Fuzzy Logic Model, based on fuzzy set theory, was constructed for this purpose, in order to compare the performances of sugar plants within the sector's best standards, as expressed in the Reference Document on BAT. The effectiveness of the model was tested in the case study,in which three sugar plants were benchmarked against the BAT regarding the consumption of energy, water, raw materials and the production of wastes, wastewater, by-products and the main product. The model was recognized as helpful for the benchmarking needs of sugar plants. In addition, by integrating BAT Reference Document analysis into the model, it provides IPPC permitting authorities with an objective method and uniform BAT benchmarks to manage permitting process.	nld	Elsevier;Pergamon	2007	1.01	Resources, conservation and recycling	1.270	1.376
11545177	The Lucas property of a number array	For all non-negative integers ?$i,j$? let ?$w(i,j|a,b,c)$? denote the number of all paths in the plane from ?$(0,0)$? to ?$(i,j)$? with steps ?$(1,0)$?, ?$(0,1)$?, ?$(1,1)$? and with positive integer weights ?$a,b,c$?, respectively. The divisibility property of the array ?$w(i,j|a,b,s)$? is studied. The notation of the Lucas property is introduced. Let ?$p$? be an prime and let ?$\bar{w}(i,j|a,b.c)$? denote the remainders of dividing ?$w(i,j|a,b,c)$? by ?$p$? where ?$0 \le \bar{w}(i,j|a,b.c) < p$?. The Lucas property of ?$w(i,j|a,b,c)$? explains the self-similar pattern of ?$\bar{w}(i,j|a,b,c)$?. The principal clusters of higher orders are generated by the tensor powers of the principal cell containing ?$\bar{w}(i,j|a,b,c)$? where ?$0 \le i < p$? and ?$0 \le j < p$?.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11545433	On the fractional chromatic number, the chromatic number, and graph products	It is shown that the difference between chromatic number ?$\chi$? and the fractional chromatic number ?$\chi_f$? can be arbitrarily large in tha class of uniquely colorable, vertex transitive graphs. For the lexicographic product ?$G \circ H$? it is shown that ?$\chi(G \circ H) \ge \chi_f(G)\chi(H)$? This bound has several consequences, in particular, it unifies and extends several known lower bounds. Lower bounds of Stahl (for general graphs) and of Bollobás and Thomason (for uniquelly colorable graphs) are also proved in a simple, elementary way.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Mathematics	0.395	0.504
11546646	A plastic optical fiber microbend sensor used as a low-cost anti-squeeze detector	This paper presents a low-cost liber optic anti-squeeze sensor, suitable for use in high-volume cost driven applications. The sensor, used as a car window anti-sqneeze detector, com-plies with EC 2000/4IEC and V.S. Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 118. The proposed design relies on microbend, loss induced in plastic optical liber (POF). The sensor assembly employs only low-cost optoelectronic components readily in use by antomotive and consumer markets. The lifetime tests have been performed on prototype sensors. The results show that the proposed design can easily reach and exceed 100000 operational cycles even though it relies on ftexible and all-polymer design. The proposed sensor design can be easily extended to other nonauto-motive applications, snch as protection devices in automatic door openers.	usa	Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers	2007	1.01	IEEE sensors journal	1.340	0.927
11547926	Cascade delta-sigma modulator with pseudo-differential comparator-based switched-capacitor gain stage	A low-power, multi-stage delta-sigma modulator with comparator-based switched-capacitor (CBSC) gain stages is presented. The presented design eliminates the need for operational amplifiers and replaces them by comparators with current sources at their outputs to alleviate the effects of continued technology scaling on analog and mixed-signal circuits. The proposed technique significantly reduces power consumption and can be applied to switched-capacitor delta-sigma modulators of arbitrary order. Based on the proposed methodology, a 2-1 cascade, single-bit, pseudo-differential switched-capacitor deltasigma modulator is developed and achieves a SNDR of 76.8 dB with an oversampling ratio of 64 at a clock frequency of 8 MHz.	usa	Kluwer Academic Publishers	2007	1.01	Analog integrated circuits and signal processing	0.279	1.019
11550216	How to simulate anchoring	We present a method to manipulate the average direction of linear model moleculas. In contarst to a hard constraint, we use a soft confinement potential linked to the director orientation. The method is applied to a mixture of Gay-Berne molecules at high density, where smectic demixing occurs. Other possible applications, such as the simulation of ""easy directions"" in anchoring and evaluation of elastic coefficients, are discussed	usa	Gordon and Breach	2000	1.01	Molecular crystals and liquid crystals science and technology	0.885	1.172
11550728	Simulating phase transitions in binary liquid crystal films	Liquid crystals (LC) are often subject to external orienting forces, arising either from applied fields or from surface anchoring. The molecular simulation of such systems is an important step towards the prediction of real LC behavior. Recently some progress has been made regarding the simulation of LC models, both in confined spaces (slabs, films) and under the influence of aligning torques. We present Monte Carlo (MC) simulations of Gay-Berne (ellipsoidal) model particles. The present article deals with a binary system of such molecules confined between two walls. Simulations were performed in 3 dimensions. The results are presented as structure visualizations and in the plot of the order parameter	usa	Gordon and Breach	2000	1.01	Molecular crystals and liquid crystals science and technology	0.885	1.172
11552534	Implementation of non-intrusive fault detection in embedded control systems	Paper presents fault detection in embedded control systems by the so-called monitoring cells. The basic idea is to monitor input/output variables and internal states of systems, processes or sub-processes by using acquired and built-in knowledge about the normal behavior in order to detect abnormalities. Paper gives the detailed architecture and the operation of the monitoring cells. The concept is applicable even if only a limited knowledge about the control system is available. In such cases the proposed automated learning of the monitoring function can be used. In the second part, two different implementations of the monitoring celi are presented. The first one uses discrete analogue devices and a field programmable gate array. The secondis based on the programmable system-on-a-chip devices.	svn	Strokovno društvo za mikroelektroniko, elektronske sestavne dele in materiale	2007	1.01	Informacije MIDEM	0.117	0.927
11554331	Fast ellipsometric measurements based on a single crystal photo-elastic modulator	For quality control in high volume manufacturing of thin layers and for tracking of physical and chemical processes, ellipsometry is a common measurement technology. For such kinds of applications we present a novel approach of fast ellipsometric measurements. Instead of a conventional setup that uses a standard photo-elastic modulator, we use a 92 kHy Single Crystal Photo-Elastic Modulator (SCPEM), which is a LiTaO3 crystal with a size of 28 *9 * 4 mm. This small, simple, and cost-effective solution also offers the advantage of direct control of the retardation via the current amplitude, which is important for repeatability of the measurements. Instead of a Lock-InAmplifier, an automated digital processing based on a fast analog to digital converter controlled by a highly flexible Field Programmable Gate Array is used. This and the extremely compact and efficient polarization modulation allow fast ellipsometric testing where the upper limit of measurement rates is mainly limited by the desired accuracy and repeatability of the measurements. The standard deviation that is related to the repeatability +/-0.002° for dielectric layers can be easily reached.	usa	Optical Society of America	2010	1.01	Optics express	3.749	1.753
11554649	Oka's principle for holomorphic submersions with sprays	In this paper we give a complete proof of the general case of theorem of M. Gromov from 1989 to the effect that sections of certain holomorphic submersions ?$h: Z \to X$? on to stein manifolds ?$X$? satisfy the ?$h$?-principle, meaning that each continuous section can be homotopically deformed to a holomorphic section and each homotopy between two fixed holomorphic sections can be deformed to a homotopy consisting of holomorphic sections. It is proved that the ?$h$?-principle holds if ?$X$? is Stein and each point ?$x \in X$? has an open neighborhood ?$U \subset X$? and finitely many vertical ?$C$?-complete holomorphic vector fields on ?$h^{-1}(U) \subset Z$? which span the vertical tangent space at each point.	deu	Springer	2002	1.01	Mathematische Annalen	0.755	0.504
11556697	A counterexample to the uniform shortest path routing conjecture for vertex-transitive graphs	In this note we disprove the uniform shortest path conjecture for vertex-transitive graphs. An infinite family of counterexamples is given.	nld	North-Holland	2002	1.01	Discrete Applied Mathematics	0.471	0.679
11559963	Analysis of die casting tool material	This paper deals with defects produced in aluminium alloy die casting dies during die operation. The most frequent defect is thermal fatigue cracking. Hardness and toughness is measured on specimens cut from different parts of used die casting die. The results show a significant difference in material microstructure and hardness between the surface and the core. The intense martensite tempering is observed on the die surface, while the core material microstructure remains unchanged. A considerable hardness drop is measured on the material surface and no change is observed in the depth of six millimetres from surface.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2010	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.466	0.909
11562760	Chiral discrimination in mobile phases for HPLC	In this paper we present an algorithm and some preliminary results of a computer simulation study designed to elucidate the molecular interaction mechanisms associated with chiral discrimination in chiral high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Molecular dynamics simulations have been performed on a novel active stationary phase constituent based on disaccharides and a model analyte in a typical solvent used as mobile phase in chiral HPLC. The results are interpreted in terms of typical binding geometries and energies found from the simulations. This paper provides basic algorithms for predicting enantiometric selectivity and for investigating the implications for choice of parameters such as solvent polarity and temperature for optimising chiral HPLC separations	nld	Elsevier	2002	1.01	Journal of molecular liquids	0.614	1.873
11567193	The chromatic number of graph powers	It is shown that the maximum possible chromatic number of the square of a graph with maximum degree ?$d$? and girth ?$g$? is ?$(1+o(1))d^2$? if ?$q=3,4,5$? or ?$6$?, and is ?$\Theta(d^2/\log d)$? if ?$g \ge 7$?. Extensions to higher powers are considered as well.	gbr	Cambridge University Press	2002	1.01	Combinatorics, probability & computing	0.468	0.504
11567449	Discs in Stein manifolds containing given discrete sets	Denote by ?$\Delta$? the open unit disc in ?$\Cc$?. We prove that given a discrete subset ?$S$? of a connected Stein manifold ?$M$? there is a proper holomorphic map ?$f: \Delta \to M$? such that ?$S \subset f(\Delta)$?; if dim?$M \ge 3$? the map ?$f$? can be chosen to be an embedding. In addition we prove that we can prescribe higher order contacts of ?$f(\Delta)$? with given one dimensional submanifolds in ?$M$?.	deu	Springer-Verlag	2002	1.01	Mathematische Zeitschrift	0.597	0.504
11568473	When is C(X) a po-coherent ring?	Let ?$X$? be a completely regular Hausdorff topological space. It is shown that the ring of real valued continuous functions ?$C(X)$? is ?$po$?-coherent (in the sense of F. Wehrung) if and only if ?$X$? is basically disconnected.	usa	M. Dekker.	2002	1.01	Communications in algebra	0.305	0.504
11573526	Optimiranje znaèilnih parametrov frezanja z uporabo razvojne tehnike optimizacije jate delcev	The selection of machining parameters is an important step in process planning; therefore, a new evolutionary computation technique has been developed to optimize the machining process. In this paper, Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) is used to efficiently optimize the machining parameters simultaneously in milling processes where multiple conflicting objectives are present. First, an artificial neural network (ANN) predictive model is used topredict the cutting forces during machining and then the PSO algorithm is used to obtain the optimum cutting speeds and feed rates. The goal of the optimization is to determine the objective function maximum (the predicted cutting-force surface) by considering the cutting constraints. During optimization the particles 'fly' intelligently in the solution space and search for optimal cutting conditions according to the strategies of the PSO algorithm. The results showed that an integrated system of neural networks and swarm intelligence is an effective method for solving multi-objective optimization problems. The high accuracy of the results within a wide range of machining parameters indicates that the system can be practically applied in industry. The simulation results show that compared with genetic algorithms (GAs) and simulated annealing (SA) the proposed algorithm can improve the quality of the solution while speeding up the convergence process. The new computational technique has several advantages and benefits and is suitable for use when combined with ANN-based models where no explicit relation between the inputs and the outputs is available. This research opens the door for a new class of optimization techniques that are based on evolution computation in the area of machining.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2007	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.088	0.706
11574806	Progressive method for color selective edge detection	Edge detection plays an important role in image analysis systems. We present acolor selective edge detection technique, which consists of two image processing steps. The first step represents pixel-based color detection and the second progressive block-oriented edge detection. The combination of these two steps defines a selective edge detection technique, which enables fast and simple processing of those images captured using arbitrary cameras incomplex scenes with nonstandard illumination. The proposed method was implemented for the detecting of skin color objects and tested on real scene images.	int	Society of Photo-optical Instrumentation Engineers	2007	1.01	Optical engineering	0.757	1.124
11576854	Annotating discourse markers in spontaneous speech corpora on an example for the Slovenian	Speech-to-speech translation technology has difficulties processing elements of spontaneity in conversation. We propose a discourse marker attribute in speech corpora to help overcome some of these problems. There have already been some attempts to annotate discourse markers in speech corpora. However, as there is no consistency on what expressions count as discourse markers, we have to reconsider how to set a framework for annotating, and, in order to better understand what we gain by introducing a discourse marker category, we have to analyse their characteristics and functions in discourse. This is especially important for languages such as Slovenian where no or little research on the topic of discourse markers has been carried out. The aims of this paper are to present a scheme for annotating discourse markers based on the analysis of a corpus of telephone conversations in the tourism domain in the Slovenian language, and to give some additional arguments based on the characteristics and functions of discourse markers that confirm their special status in conversation.	nld	Springer	2007	1.01	Language resources and evaluation	0.293	1.122
11577115	Principles of exergy analysis of human heat and mass exchange with the indoor environment	This paper describes the application of exergy analysis to human heat and mass exchange with the indoor environment. The basis for this paper is the existence of a formal similarity between the parameters defining human heat and mass transfer governed by physiological processes and the parameters defining exergy destruction. Basic heat and mass transfer is calculated using a standard two-node human physiological model. To enable an exergy analysis the model was divided according to heat and mass transfer over appropriate boundaries. The exergy analysis was performed for each process with regard to the type of exergy that participates in heat and mass exchange with respect to the indoor environment. The results provide insight into the complex interactions between the human body and environment as characterized by exergy destruction. Furthermore, the analzsis indicates that at given physiological parameters only a certain combination of environmental conditions ensures minimal exergy destruction. These environmental and human conditions coincide with expected level of thermal comfort.	gbr	Pergamon Press.	2010	1.01	International journal of heat and mass transfer	1.898	0.909
11577622	Input-output modelling with decomposed neuro-fuzzy ARX model	This paper presents a new neuro-fuzzy system based model, which is useful for the modelling of nonlinear dynamic systems. The new proposed model constitutes a soft computing method, namely, reasoning with a fuzzy inference system (FIS) and an optimisation by the neural-network learning algorithm. A structure, named the decomposed neuro-fuzzy ARX model is proposed. This structure is based on decomposition of the FIS. An evolution of a learning algorithm for the decomposed fuzzy model is suggested. A comparative study of dynamic system identification using conventional FIS models and the proposed neuro-fuzzy ARX model is presented for Box-Jenkins data set.	nld	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Neurocomputing	1.234	1.614
11577878	Optimization of markers in clothing industry	The optimization of markers is one of the most important preparatory steps for production in the clothing industry. It determines the sizes of clothes to be laid and cut together. Markers are built on a work order basis. The work order is a matrix of sizes by colors that have to be covered by markers in an optimal way. The optimal way can be defined in a number of ways: it can be the minimum number of markers to accomplish the work order, or the least time for fulfilling the work order, or the minimal amount of cloth used. In this article, the problem of marker optimization is treated formally. The problem is transformed into the 0/1 knapsack problem and solved using evolutionary algorithms. The results obtained on ten real-world work orders show an important improvement over the previously best known solutions.	nld	Pineridge Press	2008	1.01	Engineering applications of artificial intelligence	1.397	1.044
1157993	The international classification of functioning, disability and health	Objective: There has been no attempt to obtain a continuous summary measure of disability from the checklist of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF). Our objective was to assess whether valid scales of Capacity and Performance could be developed from the ""Activities and Participation"" domain of the ICF checklist. Study Design and Setting: A multicenter, observational study of 1,092 patients with 12 different chronic conditions from five European countries was conducted. Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses were performed to assess the underlying factor structure. Reliability and validity of the Capacity and Performance scales were evaluated. Construct validity was assessed calculating effect size coefficients between extreme severity groups (discriminant ability). Results: The good fit of the confirmatory factor model supported the global scales of Capacity and Performance and their ""Psychosocial"" and ""Physical"" subscales. Reliability was excellent (coefficients = 0.79-0.92). Effect sizes of most conditions were large for the Capacity global scale (0.50-3.05), and slightly lower for the Performance global scale (0.45-2.57). Conclusions: Our findings support the measurement model, reliability, and validity of the Capacity and Performance scales. Summary measures of functioning based on the ICF can be obtained using these scales, which should facilitate their incorporation in clinical and epidemiological studies.	usa	Pergamon Press	2011	1.01	Journal of Clinical Epidemiology	4.271	1.91
11580182	A practical approach to the 2D incremental nearest-point problem suitable for different point distributions	In this paper we present a new practical approach to solve the incremental nearest-point problem in the plane. We used the proposed approach in industrial applications with a superior behaviour to the theoretically better solutions. The method efficiently avoids the requirement of initial randomization of the input points by splitting the plane in strips using a heuristic. Points in strips are stored either in (a,b)-skip lists or in (a,b)-trees. Testing of the algorithms at different point distributions shows that our algorithm, using proposed heuristic, is almost insensible to distributions of input points, what makes the algorithm very attractive for various engineering applications.	nld	Pergamon	2008	1.01	Pattern recognition	3.279	1.332
11581192	Relations between the motor and cognitive dimensions of preschool girls and boys	The aim of this study was to compare relations between latent motor dimensions and cognitive abilities of preschool boys and girls (N=665, age: 5 to 6 years). The psychological part of the testing was implemented with the Test Razkol. For the assessment of motor abilities 28 tests were given. The association of motor and cognitive variables were estimated by multiple regression analysis, which showed positive and significant associations between the latent motor variables and the cognitive variables for both boys and girls. On both sexes, the motor dimensions with the strongest associations with the cognitive abilities are those of coordination and the speed of movement. Despite some differences between boys and girls, they still have a lot in common since the most important latent motor dimensions prevailing in the connection between motor and cognitive dimensions are similar	usa	Perceptual and motor skills	2002	1.01	Perceptual and motor skills	0.258	1.647
11581206	Probing ion dynamics in a clay-water system with dielectric spectroscopy	Dielectric spectroscopy characterization of clay-water mixtures is presented and the obtained spectra are analysed. A theoretical model for ion dynamics isproposed in which motion of ions in pore space electrolyte is interrupted by trapping events at the mineral surfaces. The typical time scales for these processes are given in terms of the physical properties of the material. It isshown that the microscopic motion of the ions in a complex environment of clay-water system can be described with fractional dynamics leading to subdiffusive behavior.	svn	Fakulteta za gradbeništvo	2007	1.01	Acta geotechnica Slovenica	0.235	1.03
11581462	Determination of passive earth pressure using three-dimensional failure mechanism	This paper presents a modified three-dimensional (3D) failure mechanism for determining the 3D passive earth pressure coefficient using the upper bound theorem within the framework of the limit analysis theory. The translational kinematically admissible failure mechanism generalized with a depth of h = 1.0 is considered in the analysis. The mechanism geometry presents a volume of rigid blocks composed of the central body and two lateral rigid bodies, which are connected by a common velocity field. The front surface of the central body interacts with the retaining wall, while the upper surface can be loaded by surcharge loading. The lateral body segments represent four- and three-sided polygons in the cross section of the central body; therefore, they define the polygonal failure surface of the central part. At the outer side, each segment of the lateral body is bounded by infinitesimally spaced rigid half-cones that describe the envelope of a family of half-cones. The numerical results of 3D passive earth pressure limit values are presented by non-dimensional coefficients of passive earth pressure influenced by the soil weight Kpg and a coefficient of passive earth pressure influenced by the surcharge Kpq. This research was intended to improve the lowest values obtained until now using the limit analysis theory. The results are presentedin a graphical form depending on the geometrical parameters and soil properties. A brief description of two world-recognized failure mechanisms based on the limit analysis approach, and the comparison of three failure mechanism results are also presented.	svn	Fakulteta za gradbeništvo	2007	1.01	Acta geotechnica Slovenica	0.235	1.03
11581974	Comparison of virtual crack extension and strain energy density methods applied to contact surface crack growth	The paper is concerned with comparison of two crack propagation methods applied to a two-dimensional computational model of the surface initiated crack growth in the lubricated contact area of meshing gears. The virtual crack extension method and the minimum strain energy density criterion are used for simulation of the crack propagation in the framework of the finite element analysis. The discretised equivalent contact model, with the assumed size and orientation of the initial crack, is subjected to contact loading conditions, accounting for the elasto-hydro-dynamic lubrication effects, tangential loading due to sliding and the influence of lubricating fluid, driven into the crack by hydraulic mechanism. The computational results show that both crack propagation methods give comparable results, although the virtual crack extension method has some clear advantages due to its theoretical superiority in dealing with mixed-mode short crack propagation close to the loading boundary.	nld	Pergamon Press.	2007	1.01	Engineering fracture mechanics	1.227	1.049
11582230	Implementing sustainable laundering procedures for textiles in a commercial laundry and thus decreasing wastewater burden	This paper presents a research on how to optimize a laundering program to reduce wastewater burden thus achieving a more sustainable laundering procedure. A green surgical textiles program was investigated and the first step of optimization was performed based on the results of measuring certain parameters in the water taken from individual chambers. The wastewater parameters were reduced after optimization of the program although effluent treatment plants for water reuse remain necessary. An experimental laundering procedure with a high dosage of sodium hypochlorite was also conducted in order to observe a correlation between measured values of active chlorine and conductivity. As an approximate correlation was found this could result in thepossibility of incorporating a sensor in the washing machine measuring online the conductivity with the possibility of regulating the dosage of sodium hypochlorite and thus preventing overdosing, which increases the damages of the laundered textiles and the burden of wastewater.	gbr	Elsevier	2008	1.01	Journal of cleaner production	1.362	1.484
11582742	Fatigue crack initiation from microstructurally small Vickers indentations	The resistivity of coarse grain steel against crack initiation in the presence of micro defects is discussed. Samples of material with martensitic microstructure were prepared by adequate thermal treatment. Microstructurally small Vickers indentations were used as an artificial micro defect. The compressive residual stresses are due to the irreversibility of plastic deformation. The moment of indenting enables to prepare samples with and without effects of residual stresses. The stress level for crack initiation depends on the actual indentation size. The location of initiated cracks is affected by the presence and character of residual stresses.	hrv	Metalurški fakultet;Hrvatsko metalurško društvo	2007	1.01	Metalurgija	0.196	0.661
11584729	Changes of enzyme activities in the myocardium and skeletal muscle fibres of cardiomyopathic hamsters. A cytophotometrical study	Cytophotometrical measurements of enzyme activities were performed in the myocardium and skeletal muscle fibres from normal and cardiomyopathic hamsters(BIO 8262) during ageing from 12-14 to 120-190 days. Myocardium as well as vastus lateralis muscles of cardiomyopathic hamsters showed changes inenzyme activities. The skeletal muscle fibres were typed into slow-oxidative, fast-oxidative glycolytic and fast-glycolytic to investigate fibre type-related changes in muscles of cardiomyopathic hamsters. The following myopathic changes were mainly found: Myofibrillic ATPase was depressed in the myocardium of both ventricles in all investigated age stages.The ATPase activity of the right ventricle was more decreased than thatof the left one. Additionally, a metabolic shift was observed in myocardium and slow oxidative muscle fibres at the onset of clinical symptoms which appeared from day 150 to day 190. During the period from 42 up to 190 days of life an increase of oxidative (succinate dehydrogenase) activity was measured in the myocardium of both ventricles and in slow oxidative fibres of vastus lateralis muscle as a proximal muscle. At earlier ages, the fast fibresof myopathic vastus lateralis muscle showed higher glycolytic (glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase) activity than those of normal muscles. However, at the age of 120-190 days the metabolic profile of fast fibres was normalized. In gastrocnemius muscle as a distal muscle no changes of enzyme activities were measured, suggesting the investigated hereditary myopathy effected proximal, but not distal muscles.	deu	Fischer	2000	1.01	Experimental and toxicologic pathology	0.689	1.578
11584985	Genetic analysis of wild-type Dobrava hantavirus in Slovenia	Genetic analysis was performed of wild-type (wt) Dobrava hantavirus (DOB) strains from Slovenia, the country where the virus was first discovered and where it was found to cause haemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS), with a fatality rate of 1296. Two hundred and sixty mice of the genus Apodemus, trapped in five natural foci of DOB-associated HFRS during 1990-1996, were screened for the presence of anti-hantavirus antibodies and 49Apodemus flavicollis and four Apodemus agrarius were found to be positive. RT-PCR was used to recover partial sequences of the wt-DOB medium (M) and small (S) genome segments from nine A. flavicollls and one A. agrarius. Sequence comparison and phylogenetic analysis of the Slovenian wt-DOB strains revealed dose relatedness of all A. flavicollis-derived virus sequences (nucleotide diversity up to 6% for the M segment and 5% for the S segment) andthe geographical clustering of genetic variants. In contrast, the strain harboured by A. agrarius showed a high level of genetic diversity from other Slovenian DOB strains (14%) and dustered together on phylogenetic trees with other DOB strains harboured by A. agrarius from Russia, Estonia and Slovakia. These findings suggest that the DOB variants carried by the two species of Apodemus in Europe represent two distinct genetic lineages.	gbr	Cambridge University Press	2000	1.01	Journal of General Virology	3.126	1.547
11585241	Conjuctival epithelium expression of HLA-DR in glaucoma patients and its influence on the outcome of filtration surgery	Aims-To analyse the expression of HLA-DR on conjunctival epithelial cells in patients with glaucoma taking topical antiglaucoma therapy. Methods-10 patients taking no topical medication and 30 patients with uncontrolled glaucoma taking medical therapy participated in the study. The specimens were obtained by impression cytology preoperatively, 3 months, and 6 months after filtration surgery. The expression of HLA-DR on T lymphocytes and epithelial cells was analysed by flow cytometry. Results-A significant increase in HLA-DRon epithelial cells was found preoperatively in patients with glaucoma. A significant increased expression of HLA-DR on epithelial cells was detected 3 months and 6 months after surgery. Conclusions-The increased expression of HLA-DR on conjunctival epithelial cells still present 6 months after surgery indicates the increased ability of epithelial cells to induce immune inflammation with subsequent fibrosis.	gbr	British Medical Journal	2000	1.01	British journal of ophthalmology	1.948	1.208
11587867	Flow characteristics of bladeless impeller made of open cell porous material	This article describes a bladeless turbo machine impeller that transfers energy from rotor to fluid over a structure of porous material. Impeller construction is described and theoretical description of fluid flow through rotating porous material is given. Pressure drops for impellers made of different materials and with different design parameters in dependence on air volume flow rate were measured. Measurements of local air flow velocity field close to impeller circumference were performed on a stationary impeller with one component hot-wire anemometer. Air flow velocity dependence on local material structure and volume flow rate was analysed. Integral characteristics measurements for different impellers made of different materials and with different design parameters are presented. Local measurements of local radial and tangential velocities close to rotating impeller circumference are shown.	svn	Zveza strojnih inženirjev in tehnikov Slovenije [et al.] = Association of Mechanical Engineers and Technicians of Slovenia [et al.]	2010	1.01	Strojniški vestnik	0.466	0.909